Title: SecProbe: Adaptive Evaluation of Coding Agents on Cybersecurity Vulnerabilities

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.33763v1

Published Time: Tue, 29 Sep 2026 03:00:21 GMT

Number of Pages: 27

Markdown Content:
# SecProbe: Adaptive Evaluation of Coding Agents on Cybersecurity Vulnerabilities 

Xiaonan Luo 1,2,* Yue Huang 1,2,* Kehan Guo 1 Ping He 3 Chuan Zou 4 Chujie Gao 1

Lichi Li 2 Yuchen Ma 5 Zhangchen Xu 2,6 Zichen Chen 2,7 Yufei Han 8 Xiangliang Zhang 1 

> 1

University of Notre Dame 2 Bake AI 3 Vanderbilt University  

> 4

University of Pennsylvania 5 LMU Munich 6 University of Washington  

> 7

Stanford University 8 Inria 

> *

Equal contribution 

> Preprint, September 29, 2026

Abstract 

Assessing cybersecurity vulnerability awareness in coding agents requires evaluations that reveal capability gaps and remain informative as models evolve. Static benchmarks offer fixed coverage and difficulty, while scarce vulnerable repositories and costly expert authoring limit their renewal at scale. We introduce S E C PR O B E ,a framework for adaptive evaluation that combines Item Response Theory (IRT) with on-demand synthesis of repository-scale vulnerability-repair tasks. From observed performance, S E C PR O B E estimates agent ability and identifies where additional evidence is most informative, selecting existing tasks or synthesizing new ones accordingly. As one use case, we construct 353 tasks spanning six programming languages and 151 CWE types and evaluate nine frontier models with two agent harnesses. Success rates peak at 28.33%, highlighting substantial gaps in vulnerability recognition and repair. Compared with random and one-shot baselines, S E C PR O B E achieves comparable agent ability estimates while requiring agents to solve up to 29.5% fewer tasks. These results support adaptive evaluation as an efficient and discriminative approach to assessing cybersecurity vulnerability awareness. 

## 1 Introduction 

Large language model (LLM)-based coding agents (Wang et al., 2025a; Vergopoulos et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025b) increasingly navigate large repositories, reason across files (Rashid et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2026; Liu et al., 2025), and implement complex changes using tools and tests (Wang et al., 2025a; Lee et al., 2025; Deng et al., 2026; Ma et al., 2026). These capabilities amplify the consequences of insecure reasoning: functionally correct code can still contain vulnerabilities that agents fail to recognize or address (Kozak et al., 2025; Sajadi et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2026; Mou et al., 2025). As agents assume greater responsibility for software development, a central question arises: how can we efficiently and reliably evaluate their cybersecurity vulnerability awareness? We assess this awareness through their ability to identify and repair vulnerabilities. Existing evaluations typically use fixed security tasks drawn from real-world repositories (Wang et al., 2025c; Lee et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2026) or authored by experts (von Arx et al., 2026; Spence et al., 2026; Vergopoulos et al., 2025). Although these benchmarks standardize comparison, they face three limitations. First , assigning the same tasks to agents with different capabilities can spend substantial effort on tasks that are too easy, too difficult, or redundant to distinguish them, while leaving important capabilities underexplored. Second ,expanding coverage is costly: repositories with reproducible vulnerabilities, reliable patches, and security tests are scarce (Wang et al., 2025c; Lee et al., 2025; von Arx et al., 2026), and authoring new tasks requires substantial expertise (von Arx et al., 2026; Spence et al., 2026; Vergopoulos et al., 2025). Third , as agents improve and benchmark artifacts enter training corpora, fixed evaluations may become less reliable. These limitations parallel a long-standing problem in assessment: estimating ability with a limited testing budget. Computerized adaptive testing (e.g., GRE, GMAT) uses previous responses to select subsequent items that provide additional information. Inspired by this principle and recent advances in Item Response Theory (IRT)-based benchmarking (Polo et al., 2024; Ho et al., 2025; Truong et al., 2025; Lang et al., 2025), 

> 1arXiv:2609.33763v1 [cs.CR] 27 Sep 2026

we propose to frame cybersecurity evaluation as an adaptive assessment process : observed outcomes guide what to probe next. However, adaptive selection requires an adequate task bank, whereas existing security collections cover limited vulnerability families (detailed in Table 1). The central obstacle is that the informative tasks an assessment needs may not yet exist ; selection alone cannot fill these gaps. To address this gap, we introduce S E C PR O B E , a framework for adaptive evaluation of coding-agent vulnera-bility awareness that combines adaptive task selection with on-demand task synthesis. Agents are evaluated on repository-level codes that require them to detect and repair vulnerabilities. Their performance is measured primarily by whether their repairs block exploitation samples designed for the injected vulnerabilities, with reference patches providing supplementary evidence of repair correctness. An IRT-based evaluation loop uses these outcomes to estimate agent ability, task difficulty, and discrimination, and determine which tasks would provide the most additional information. These estimates guide selection from the available task pool. When suitable tasks are missing, S E C PR O B E coordinates specialized agents to synthesize new tasks conditioned on a target Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) class and software context to meet the assessment needs. By making task construction responsive to evaluation outcomes, S E C PR O B E concentrates its assessment budget on unresolved capability gaps and renews its task pool as agents evolve. As one use case, we construct 353 tasks spanning six programming languages and 151 CWE types, assess their quality through quantitative analysis and expert review, and evaluate nine frontier models with two agent harnesses. S E C PR O B E achieves comparable agent ability estimates while requiring agents to solve up to 29.5% fewer tasks than baselines. The strongest evaluated configuration achieves only a 28.33% success rate, highlighting persistent challenges in vulnerability identification and repair. 

Contributions. Our contributions are summarized below: • We introduce S E C PR O B E , an adaptive framework for evaluating coding agents’ awareness of code vulnerabilities . SecProbe follows an observe-then-act loop: observed agent performance determines which security capability is probed next. Security evaluation thus becomes an iterative measurement process rather than a fixed task collection. • We extend the adaptive assessment beyond fixed task banks through on-demand task synthesis . Guided by assessment needs, S E C PR O B E constructs executable repository-scale tasks for target CWE classes and software contexts, together with exploit-based tests and reference patches, supplying new tasks when suitable ones are unavailable. • We instantiate S E C PR O B E with 353 highly challenging vulnerability-repair tasks spanning six program-ming languages and 151 distinct CWE types, and conduct a comprehensive empirical study of adaptive assessment, task quality, and the cybersecurity vulnerability awareness of nine frontier model backbones with two agent harnesses. 

## 2 Related Work 

2.1 Code Security 

Executable security benchmarks assess coding agents across vulnerability discovery, exploitation, and repair. CVE-Bench evaluates real-world CVE repair in reproducible repositories (Wang et al., 2025c), while CyberGym evaluates vulnerability reproduction through proof-of-concept generation (Wang et al., 2026b). ExploitGym extends vulnerability triggering to working exploits under deployed protections (Wang et al., 2026a), and CyberGym-E2E jointly evaluates discovery, proof-of-concept generation, repair, and post-patch functionality (Shi et al., 2026). Complementary work examines secure code generation and repair (Chen et al., 2026; Mou et al., 2025) and broader attacks and defenses for tool-using agents (Fu et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025a). SEC-bench reproduces vulnerabilities in isolated repositories with evaluation harnesses and reference patches (Lee et al., 2025). CVE-Factory converts CVE metadata into executable environments (Luo et al., 2026a), while AutoBaxBuilder synthesizes secure-code tasks and security tests from scratch (von Arx et al., 2026). These approaches expand the supply of executable security tasks. S E C PR O B E connects task                                

> 2Table 1: Comparison of cybersecurity benchmarks and frameworks by task count, CWE coverage, and support for difficulty and cost control.
> Benchmark / Framework # Tasks # CWEs Difficulty control Cost control
> CVE-Bench (Wang et al., 2025c) 509 16 ××
> SEC-bench (Lee et al., 2025) 200 25 ××
> CyberGym (Wang et al., 2026b) 1,507 88 ××
> CVE-Factory (Luo et al., 2026a) 190 74 ××
> AutoBaxBuilder (von Arx et al., 2026) 40 11 ✓×
> SE C PR O B E (Ours) 353 151 ✓✓

construction to adaptive evaluation of coding-agent vulnerability awareness : observed outcomes guide task selection and on-demand synthesis conditioned on target CWE classes and software contexts. Assessment needs thus direct both evaluation effort and task generation. Table 1 summarizes these comparisons. 

2.2 LLMs in Synthetic Data 

LLMs have demonstrated strong capabilities for producing synthetic data, with recent studies emphasizing the importance of generation quality, diversity, complexity, and reasoning-guided orchestration (Liu et al., 2024; Havrilla et al., 2024; Davidson et al., 2025). Building on earlier dataset-generation methods based on pretrained language models (Schick and Schütze, 2021), modern LLMs have enabled synthetic data creation across multilingual question answering (Riabi et al., 2021), instruction tuning (Xu et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025b; Zhong et al., 2025), factual alignment (Wei et al., 2024), and scientific domains (Huang et al., 2025a). Synthetic generation has also been used to expand data diversity while maintaining utility (Dai et al., 2025; Chung et al., 2023; Riaz et al., 2025). More general frameworks such as DataGen unify dataset specification and generation (Huang et al., 2025b), while RefineLab automatically optimizes dataset-refinement workflows to improve data quality (Luo et al., 2026b). System-message synthesis has also been shown to support broad and personalized alignment (Lee et al., 2024). Our setting extends synthetic data generation to executable repositories containing vulnerabilities and associated exploitation samples. S E C PR O B E coordinates task construction and validation through specialized agents, using evaluation outcomes to guide subsequent task generation. 

2.3 Efficient Benchmarking 

Efficient benchmarking seeks reliable estimates of model performance from fewer evaluations. Ye et al. (2023) use matrix completion to predict unobserved model–task scores from a subset of evaluation records. Perlitz et al. (2024) study the trade-off between cost and reliability, showing that example subsampling can preserve model rankings when evaluated scenarios remain sufficiently diverse. Vivek et al. (2024) select representative instances by clustering model confidence profiles, estimating performance from a small set of anchor points. These approaches improve efficiency within an existing task collection. S E C PR O B E combines adaptive task selection with on-demand synthesis, using IRT estimates to identify where the available tasks provide insufficient information. It then directs multi-agent generation toward those assessment needs, allowing both the evaluation schedule and the task pool to adapt to observed agent performance. 

## 3 SecProbe 

3.1 Preliminaries 

We evaluate the vulnerability awareness of coding agents through repository-scale tasks. Each task requires the agent to locate and repair vulnerabilities while preserving the intended functionality. Let c ∈ C denote a target CWE class, s a software specification describing the language, application context, and architecture, and h a difficulty-control vector (Section 3.5). Given (c, s, h), S E C PR O B E first builds an 

> 3

SecProbe adaptive evaluation       

> Configuration Task synthesis Agent evaluation
> Identify + repair Bayesian 2PL-IRT Information gap Next-task policy
> Target CWE class
> Language +
> software context
> Difficulty controls Validated task batch
> tasks
> agent configurations
> G (θ) ₜ
> Target high-gap region
> If tasks are unavailable
> Guide task synthesis

Multi-agent task synthesis 

> Online Security
> Researcher
> CWE security profile
> Task Architect
> Software + vulnerability
> blueprint
> Exploit Test
> Strategist
> Exploit + functional
> test strategy
> Repository Engineer
> Repository + tests
> Reference patch
> Security Reviewer
> Pass or revise
> Exploit tests
> Reference patch
> Heuristic mapping
> Select from the existing task pool
> Synthesize tasks when unavailable

Figure 1: SE C PR O B E couples adaptive evaluation with on-demand multi-agent task synthesis. 

executable project P. It then injects vulnerabilities of class c into P, yielding Pc = Ic(P). A task is represented as 

x = ( s, Pc, Tfunc , Tsec , m), (1) where Tfunc is a suite of unit tests covering the intended functionality, Tsec is a suite of exploitation tests, and 

m records the task metadata. Throughout, a suite evaluates to one when it passes and zero when it fails. Each task is further associated with a ground-truth reference patch ∆⋆. Both Tsec and ∆⋆ are hidden from the agent at test time. The tests in Tsec are designed to trigger the injected vulnerabilities: a failing suite ( Tsec (Pc) = 0) means the exploit succeeded, and a passing suite means it did not. A valid vulnerable sample must therefore behave as the specification intends while remaining exploitable: 

Tfunc (Pc) = 1, Tsec (Pc) = 0. (2) The evaluated agent receives s and Pc, with the exact vulnerability locations, security test samples, and the reference patch withheld. It must detect the vulnerabilities and produce a patch ∆. Evaluation relies primarily on executing the security and unit tests against the patched repository Pc ⊕ ∆, where ⊕ denotes patch application. To satisfy the test-based repair criterion, the patch must meet 

Tfunc (Pc ⊕ ∆) = 1 and Tsec (Pc ⊕ ∆) = 1. (3) These conditions require preserving tested functionality and blocking the tested exploits. Supplementary review uses ∆⋆ as a reference to assess whether the submitted changes address the underlying vulnerabilities. Task synthesis defines a configurable distribution x ∼ D gym (c, s, h) over executable evaluation tasks. The configuration controls vulnerability class, software context, and difficulty, allowing S E C PR O B E to construct new tasks without requiring a pre-existing vulnerable repository. 

3.2 Overview 

As illustrated in Figure 1, S E C PR O B E connects adaptive evaluation with multi-agent task synthesis through two feedback loops. The outer loop determines which tasks to evaluate next. After each evaluation batch, an IRT model is fitted to accumulated agent outcomes to estimate agent ability, task difficulty, and discrimination. These estimates identify where additional evidence would be informative and guide selection from the available task pool. When suitable tasks are unavailable, the framework selects a generation configuration 

(c, s, h) and invokes task synthesis. Outcomes on the selected and newly generated tasks update the model for the next round, making evaluation needs guide the expansion of the task pool (Section 3.6). The inner loop constructs and reviews each new task through five specialized agents, the Online Security Researcher , Task Architect , Exploit Test Strategist , Repository Engineer , and Security Reviewer . Together, they translate the target CWE class and software specification into an executable repository, reference patch, 

4and evaluation tests. An orchestrator coordinates intermediate artifacts and routes issues identified during review back to the responsible agents for revision. Only tasks satisfying the release requirements enter the evaluation pool. Construction and testing take place in isolated synthetic environments. We next describe the specialist agents, difficulty controls, and adaptive evaluation procedure. 

3.3 Specialist Agents Online Security Researcher. Given a target CWE class, this agent consults authoritative online sources to understand how the vulnerability arises, how it is exploited in practice, and what constitutes an effective mitigation. It distills the findings into a structured security profile ϕc = R(c), where R denotes the research process. The profile ϕc grounds task synthesis in real security behavior without reproducing attacks against live systems. 

Task Architect. This agent transforms the security profile ϕc and generation specification s into a repository-scale task blueprint b = A(ϕc, s). It places the target vulnerability in a realistic application and designs the surrounding software so that the security behavior emerges through meaningful interactions across the project, rather than through an isolated or easily identifiable code snippet. The resulting blueprint b serves as the shared contract for implementation and evaluation. 

Exploit Test Strategist. Using the blueprint and security profile, this agent develops a test strategy q =

S(b, ϕc). It specifies exploitation samples targeting the planned vulnerabilities and functional checks for legitimate use, guiding the construction of Tsec and Tfunc . Together, these checks assess whether repairs block the attacks while retaining the application’s intended behavior. 

Repository Engineer. Conditioned on b and q, this agent constructs the executable instance x = E (b, q). It realizes the intended application and plants the target vulnerabilities within plausible code paths while preserving the utility of the repo-level sample. The agent then builds and exercises the project so that 

x = ( s, Pc, Tfunc , Tsec , m) is reproducible and ready for independent review. 

Security Reviewer. This agent independently audits x and returns a decision v = V (x) ∈ { pass, revise }.It checks whether the intended behavior is preserved, the injected vulnerabilities are exploitable, and the evaluation recognizes correct repairs. A revise decision includes specific findings for the responsible agent. Review findings guide revision, while final admission to the S E C PR O B E task pool is determined by the deterministic validation checks described in Section 3.4. 

3.4 Validation and Release Acceptance thresholds. An instance is admitted only if the reference implementation scores exactly 100 under its hidden grader, security-bearing rubric categories carry at least half of the 100 points, and every declared security mutation applied to the reference scores at most 80. The released vulnerable repository must pass the functionality tests and obtain a hidden-grader score in [15, 75 ].

Validation and repair loop. The pass/revise decision of the Security Reviewer is advisory; final admission is determined by a deterministic validator that checks artifact completeness, rejects symlinks, verifies public-API parity and scale constraints, isolates Tsec from the released repository, and requires the reference implementation to score 100 deterministically. The released repository must be fully implemented, pass 

Tfunc , satisfy the score thresholds above, and document the required source-to-sink paths. The hidden grader must detect every declared mutant. The exported task is then rebuilt and regraded in a clean Linux container. If validation fails, the orchestrator routes a machine-readable failure report to a repair stage and reruns the complete validator, for at most ten rounds. Repairs may not weaken tests, modify the reference implementation to accommodate stale mutants, pad the repository to meet scale constraints, or alter the export or grading harness to induce a pass; instances that remain invalid after the final round are discarded. 

> 5

3.5 Difficulty Control 

Each task evaluates two coupled capabilities. Given the specification s and vulnerable repository Pc, the agent must first identify an unknown set of vulnerabilities Zc = {z1, . . . , zK }. It must then repair them by producing a patch ∆ that addresses every member of Zc while preserving intended functionality. Vulnerability locations and exploitation paths are withheld, requiring the agent to reason across the repository to locate the vulnerabilities and determine how to patch. To control the difficulty of this process, we condition generation on the hyperparameter vector 

h = ( hrepo , harch , hvuln , heval ). (4) The repository-scale vector hrepo = ( nloc , nfile , nfunc ) controls the numbers of source-code lines, implementation files, and functions. The architectural vector harch = ( ncomp , ndep , napi ) controls software modules or services, dependencies between them, and exposed types, functions, or methods. The vulnerability vector hvuln =(nvuln , npath , nmut ) controls injected vulnerabilities, exploit paths per vulnerability, and security mutations detected by the security tests. Finally, the evaluation vector heval = ( npub , nhid , nadv ) controls agent-visible functionality tests, hidden functional and security tests reserved for evaluation, and exploit families with distinct mechanisms or security conditions. Together, these controls define x ∼ D gym (c, s, h), allowing repository scale and security complexity to vary within a CWE class. Precise definitions and bounds appear in Appendix A.1. 

3.6 Adaptive Evaluation 

SE C PR O B E evaluates coding-agent vulnerability awareness through successive rounds of task selection, synthesis, and evaluation. To initialize the assessment, it constructs a broad task batch B1 spanning vul-nerability classes c, software specifications s, and difficulty configurations h. A pool A of coding-agent configurations attempts these tasks, yielding yij = 1 when agent j successfully repairs task i and yij = 0otherwise. Responses from agents with different capabilities support joint estimation of agent ability and task characteristics. After round t, we fit a Bayesian two-parameter logistic IRT model to the accumulated responses Y1: t,Pr (yij = 1) = σ αi(θj − βi) , (5) where σ is the logistic function, θj denotes agent ability, βi task difficulty, and αi > 0 task discrimination. The posterior qt = q(θ, α, β | Y1: t) captures uncertainty in both agent and task parameters. The next round targets ability regions where the current agent pool is concentrated but the available tasks provide little information. We quantify this mismatch using the information-gap score 

Gt(θ) = wt(θ)

ϵ + Eqt

∑i α2 

> i

pi(θ)( 1 − pi(θ))  , wt(θ) = 1

|A| ∑

> j∈A

Pr 

> qt

 |θj − θ| ≤ δ , (6) where pi(θ) = σ(αi(θ − βi)) , the sum over i includes calibrated tasks, and ϵ > 0 ensures numerical stability. The weight wt(θ) is the posterior expected fraction of agents within distance δ of θ, while the denominator measures the information supplied by those tasks. A large Gt(θ) therefore indicates an ability region that is relevant to the agent pool but insufficiently assessed. We set the target difficulty to β⋆ = arg max θ Gt(θ)

and choose the target discrimination α⋆ from an upper quantile of estimated discrimination values for previously generated tasks near β⋆. Together, these targets specify where additional evidence is needed and how strongly the next tasks should distinguish agents with nearby abilities. The target (α⋆, β⋆) guides selection from the existing task pool. When suitable tasks are unavailable, SE C PR O B E invokes multi-agent synthesis to construct new ones. To translate the assessment target into a generation configuration, we initialize heuristic mappings from the first batch, ˆαt(c, s, h), ˆβt(c, s, h), (7) which predict task discrimination and difficulty from the target CWE class, software specification, and difficulty controls. We select (c⋆, s⋆, h⋆) whose predicted parameters are closest to (α⋆, β⋆) and use this 

> 6

configuration to guide synthesis. After evaluating each new batch, we update the IRT posterior and the mappings, allowing observed outcomes to refine subsequent task selection and construction. Batch sizes decrease as information gaps contract, and assessment stops when the normalized maximum information gap falls below the threshold specified in Appendix A.1. Section 4.5 examines the sensitivity of agent rankings and task selection to the IRT specification. 

## 4 Experiments 

4.1 Experimental Setup 

We implement S E C PR O B E with the OpenAI Agents SDK, using GPT-5.6-Luna with medium reasoning effort for all specialist agents. Tasks span six programming languages (Python, C++, Go, Java, TypeScript, and Rust) and three software levels comprising library components, single-process applications, and multi-service applications. Each task is specified by a CWE class c, software specification s, and difficulty-control vector h.As one application of the framework, we conduct adaptive evaluation starting from 150 tasks and reduce subsequent batch sizes as information gaps contract, producing a pool of 353 accepted tasks. Appendix A provides complete implementation details. 

Models. We select nine recent models from leading frontier families as agent backbones: GPT-5.6 Sol (Ope-nAI, 2026b), GPT-5.4-mini (OpenAI, 2026a), GLM-5.3 (Z.ai, 2026), Kimi K3 (Team, 2026), DeepSeek-V4 Pro (DeepSeek-AI, 2026), Qwen3.7-Flash (Qwen Team, 2026), Opus 4.8 (Anthropic, 2026), MiniMax-M3 (Lai et al., 2026), and Mistral Small 4 (Mistral AI, 2026). The resulting set covers eight providers and spans proprietary and open-weight models, as well as flagship and efficiency-oriented variants. 

Agent evaluation. We evaluate each backbone model with both M I N I -SWE-A G E N T (Yang et al., 2024) and the T E R M I N U S -2 (Merrill et al., 2026) harness. Each run takes place in an isolated Linux environment with a common task image and resource budget. Evaluating both harnesses lets us separate model capability from the effect of the surrounding agent scaffold. For a given model–harness configuration, the agent receives the same solver-facing task specification and vulnerable repository. The secure reference implementation, hidden tests, vulnerability manifest, and grader are not exposed during the run. The agent may inspect and modify the repository, execute commands, and run the public tests within /app . After the agent terminates, its final workspace is evaluated once by the hidden grader; no additional repair is allowed after grading begins. Reference patches additionally support review of whether the submitted changes address the injected vulnerabilities. 

Execution environment. Each run is executed in a fresh Linux container built from the task image. We allocate 2 CPU cores, 4,096 MB of memory, and 10,240 MB of storage per run. Image construction is limited to 1,200 s, agent execution to 7,200 s, and hidden verification to 600 s. Both harnesses use the same task image, filesystem layout, resource limits, and grader. The container is discarded after evaluation, preventing files or processes from carrying over between runs. 

Scoring & Metrics. We report two metrics. (1) The pass rate is the percentage of agent runs that obtain the full grader score of 100, indicating that the submitted patch satisfies all functional and security requirements; every partial score is treated as a failure. (2) The mean normalized grader score averages the grader scores across task attempts for each model–harness configuration and captures partial progress when a task is not completely solved. Each task grader returns a score gr ∈ [0, 100 ] for run r, with rubric weights shared by the vulnerable seed, secure reference, and agent submission. For a model–harness configuration with run set R, we compute PassRate = 100 

|R| ∑

> r∈R

1{gr = 100 }, MeanScore = 1

|R| ∑

> r∈R

gr. (8) 

> 7

# 353                    

> tasks
> Tasks Share
> Python 186 52.7%
> C++ 84 23.8%
> Go 71 20.1%
> Java 61.7%
> TypeScript 51.4%
> Rust 10.3%
> (a) Implementation language
> 0
> 50
> 100
> 150
> 200
> Tasks
> Median 1,009 Mean 1,108
> 1,000 1,500 2,000
> +9 tasks above 2,000
> (b) Source lines of code
> 0
> 25
> 50
> 75
> 100
> Tasks
> Median 28 Mean 28.8
> 20 40 60
> (c) Implementation files

Figure 2: Coding characteristics of the 353-task pool, showing (a) implementation languages, (b) source lines of code, and (c) implementation-file counts. Tasks  Share                       

> Injection 113 32.0%
> Memory 66 18.7%
> Access 59 16.7%
> Filesystem 43 12.2%
> Crypto 36 10.2%
> Exposure 22 6.2%
> Concurrency 14 4.0%
> (a) CWE category
> 0
> 50
> 100
> 150
> 200
> Tasks
> Median 6 Mean 7.4
> 6810 12 14
> (b) Attack paths per task
> 0
> 20
> 40
> 60
> Tasks
> Median 43.6 Mean 44.5
> 20 40 60
> (c) Vulnerable-seed score

Figure 3: Security characteristics of the 353-task pool, showing (a) broad security categories, (b) distinct attack paths per task, and (c) grader scores before repair. 

Only a score of 100 is counted as a successful repair; partial scores contribute to the mean score but not to the pass rate. This strict criterion requires the patch to satisfy every functional and security category rather than only the most heavily weighted requirements. 

4.2 Quality Analysis of Generated Tasks 

We examine whether the generated tasks provide suitable environments for evaluating vulnerability identifi-cation and repair through task statistics and expert review. 

Task statistics. Figures 2 and 3 summarize the coding and security characteristics of the 353 generated tasks from the evaluation task pool, spanning six programming languages and 151 CWE types across seven broad security categories. Repositories contain a median of 1,009 source lines and 28 implementation files, while tasks expose a median of 6 distinct attack paths, requiring diagnosis and repair across multiple files and security requirements. Vulnerable seeds obtain a mean grader score of 44.5, leaving substantial room for repair before reaching the full score of 100. These characteristics suggest a challenging evaluation setting for coding agents, demanding both repository-level reasoning and comprehensive security repair. 

Detailed CWE coverage. Figure 4 presents the 20 most represented individual CWE types, ranked by task count. Each task contributes once to its configured CWE type, regardless of how many vulnerability instances it contains. These 20 types account for 106 of the 353 tasks (30.0%). XML injection (CWE-91) is the most represented type, with eight tasks (2.3%), followed by buffer under-read (CWE-127), externally controlled format strings (CWE-134), and improper Unicode handling (CWE-176), with seven tasks each. The ranking also includes access-control, path-traversal, and information-exposure weaknesses, revealing variation within the broad security categories in Figure 3. 

Cross-file security complexity. We count the distinct manifest-listed files associated with each vulnerability after resolving their paths against the repository. A task’s affected-file footprint is the union across its 

> 8

(a) Most represented CWE types · 1–10  Tasks  

> CWE-91

XML injection  8 

> CWE-127

Buffer under-read  7 

> CWE-134

Externally controlled format string  7 

> CWE-176

Improper Unicode handling  7 

> CWE-94

Code injection  6 

> CWE-306

Missing authentication  6 

> CWE-434

Unrestricted file upload  6 

> CWE-23

Relative path traversal  5 

> CWE-59

Improper link resolution  5 

> CWE-89

SQL injection  5

(b) Most represented CWE types · 11–20 Tasks  

> CWE-113

HTTP request/response splitting  5 

> CWE-123

Write-what-where condition  5 

> CWE-190

Integer overflow or wraparound  5 

> CWE-284

Improper access control  5 

> CWE-73

External control of file name/path  4 

> CWE-116

Improper output encoding  4 

> CWE-125

Out-of-bounds read  4 

> CWE-129

Improper array-index validation  4 

> CWE-200

Sensitive information exposure  4 

> CWE-209

Sensitive information in errors  4

> Top 20 CWE types by task count (ties ordered by CWE ID). These 20 types cover 106 of the 353 tasks (30.0%); counts are tasks, not vulnerability instances.

Figure 4: Detailed CWE coverage. (a) Task-level joint distribution                                               

> Vulnerabilities per task
> 34567
> Distinct affected files per task
> 13 1
> 12
> 11 31
> 10 1211
> 92231
> 8253
> 7921
> 615 10 361
> 524 13 15 41
> 428 35 13
> 382 11 42
> 237 11
> 161
> Tasks per cell
> 110 40 82

(b) Vulnerability-level footprint 

> Vulnerability instances
> 0
> 250
> 500
> 750
> 1,000
> 849
> 1
> 227
> 2
> 173
> 3
> 33
> 4
> 2
> 5
> 1
> 6
> Affected files per vulnerability
> Multi-file: 436 of 1,285 (33.9%)
> Task footprints are the union of manifest-listed, repository-verified affected files across a task’s vulnerabilities; empty cells mean zero tasks.

Figure 5: Cross-file security complexity. 

vulnerabilities. Figure 5(a) relates this footprint to vulnerability count. Across 353 tasks, the median footprint is four files (range: 1–13), and 346 tasks (98.0%) affect multiple files. The most frequent combination is three vulnerabilities and three affected files, with 82 tasks (23.2%). Tasks with three vulnerabilities nevertheless span 1–13 affected files, so vulnerability count alone does not capture the breadth of affected code. At the individual-vulnerability level, 436 of 1,285 instances (33.9%) list multiple files (Figure 5(b)). Task footprints may combine independent single-file vulnerabilities; they describe documented affected-file coverage, not minimum patch sizes or runtime execution paths. 

Semantic diversity. To test whether synthesis yields distinct tasks rather than variants of a few templates, we embed each task specification (its title and application description, without the scale constraints shared by all tasks) and each of the 1,285 vulnerability descriptions (title and rationale) with Qwen3-Embedding-8B (Zhang et al., 2025c), and project both sets with UMAP (McInnes et al., 2018) under cosine distance. CWEs are grouped into seven broad security categories. Figure 6(a) shows that the pool separates into eight application themes, obtained by Ward clustering (Ward, 1963) of an eight-dimensional UMAP projection; on average, 85% of a task’s five nearest neighbours in the map share its theme. Themes align with security categories where the software determines the weakness: 83% of the native C++ library tasks target memory safety, and 92% of the encoding and XML tasks target injection. At the same time, only 11.6% of a task’s ten nearest neighbours in the embedding space share its CWE, compared with 59.1% that share its broad 

9(a) Task-level embedding map       

> Native C++ parsers & libraries
> Auth gateways, sessions & consoles
> Encoding, XML & canonicalization
> Artifact archives & workspaces
> Multi-tenant ledgers & queries
> Key vaults & crypto migration
> Bounded job & work services
> Museum & exhibit catalogs
> Security category
> Injection
> Access
> Memory
> Crypto
> Filesystem
> Exposure
> Concurrency
> Marker size = vulnerabilities per task (3–7)
> (b) Nearest-neighbour similarity
> 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
> Tasks (median 0.74, max 0.875)
> Vulnerabilities (median 0.72)
> 0.90
> none
> above
> Cosine similarity to nearest neighbour

Figure 6: Semantic map of the 353-task pool. (a) Task specifications embedded with Qwen3-Embedding-8B and projected with UMAP. Colour gives the security category of each task’s CWE, marker size its number of vulnerabilities, and shaded regions the eight application themes. (b) Cosine similarity of each task and each vulnerability to its nearest neighbour. 

category and 19.4% expected by chance. Tasks with the same CWE are thus placed in different applications, while related weaknesses remain locally coherent. No pair of tasks exceeds a cosine similarity of 0.90: the median nearest-neighbour similarity is 0.74 and the maximum is 0.875 (Figure 6(b)), so the pool contains no near-duplicate specifications. 

Vulnerability-level diversity. Figure 7 maps the 1,285 vulnerability descriptions. Each category occupies a core region but extends into others. Memory-safety vulnerabilities are the most concentrated, with 65% of their ten nearest neighbours in the same category, whereas exposure and concurrency vulnerabilities are the most dispersed, at 26% and 23%. Vulnerabilities in the same task are no more similar to one another (mean cosine similarity 0.506) than to vulnerabilities of the same CWE in other tasks (0.503), so the three to seven vulnerabilities in a task are distinct flaws rather than restatements of one. These findings do not depend on the embedding model: with OpenAI text-embedding-3-large, pairwise task similarities correlate with those above at Spearman ρ = 0.75, and no task pair exceeds 0.90. 

Human evaluation. To assess task quality beyond automated checks, experts evaluate security validity, attack plausibility and diversity, reference-solution correctness, repository realism, cross-file complexity, and grader alignment with functional and security requirements. Mean ratings exceed 4.0 out of 5 in every dimension, with an overall rating of 4.40 and 92% of evaluated tasks accepted for benchmark inclusion. These assessments suggest that the generated repositories resemble real-world software in structure, and that their injected vulnerabilities represent valid security weaknesses with plausible attack paths. Table 2 reports the full results. 

Human evaluation protocol. For each selected task, experts assess whether the injected vulnerabilities match the target CWE and can be exploited ( security validity ); whether attack scenarios are plausible and non-equivalent ( attack plausibility and diversity ); whether the reference repair blocks all documented attack paths without regressions ( reference correctness ); whether the repository forms a coherent software project (repository realism ); whether repair requires reasoning across files or components ( cross-file complexity ); and 

10 All vulnerabilities  1,285  Injection  406  Access  219  Memory  238        

> Crypto 137 Filesystem 158 Exposure 76 Concurrency 51

Figure 7: Vulnerability-level map of the 1,285 vulnerability descriptions. The first panel colours every vulnerability by security category; each remaining panel highlights one category against the others. 

Table 2: Human evaluation of generated cybersecurity coding tasks. Experts score each dimension from 1 (poor) to 5 (excellent).         

> Expert ratings Dimension Evaluation focus Mean ±Std. ≥4Accept Agreement

Security CWE validity and exploit impact 4.60 ± 0.50 92% 94% 0.82 Attacks Plausible and diverse attack cases 4.20 ± 0.70 85% 87% 0.74 Reference Complete fix without regressions 4.70 ± 0.40 94% 96% 0.86 

Realism Coherent real-world repository 4.10 ± 0.70 82% 84% 0.72 Complexity Cross-file diagnosis and repair 4.40 ± 0.60 89% 91% 0.79 Grader Functional–security score alignment 4.50 ± 0.50 91% 93% 0.83 

Overall Benchmark inclusion suitability 4.40 ± 0.50 89% 92% 0.80 

whether the tests and rubric accept complete alternative repairs while rejecting incomplete ones ( grader alignment ). 

Ratings and aggregation. Experts score each dimension from 1 (poor) to 5 (excellent). We report the mean and standard deviation of these ratings, the proportion of ratings at least 4, the proportion of positive acceptance judgments, and agreement across expert judgments. As shown in Table 2, every criterion averages above 4.0; the overall mean is 4.40, with 92% acceptance and an agreement score of 0.80. 

4.3 Evaluation of Coding-Agent Vulnerability Awareness 

We use the 353-task pool to assess how effectively frontier coding agents identify and repair vulnerabilities under a common execution and scoring protocol. 

Frontier agents remain far from reliable security repair. Figure 8 shows that no evaluated configuration achieves a strict pass rate above 30%. GLM-5.3 performs best under both harnesses, passing 26.91% of runs with M I N I -SWE-A G E N T and 28.33% with T E R M I N U S -2. GPT-5.6-Sol ranks second, reaching 25.21% with                         

> 11 Pass rate Mini-SWE-Agent Terminus-2 Mean score Mini-SWE-Agent Terminus-2
> Pass rate (%) Mean grader score
> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 40
> 50
> 0
> 20
> 40
> 60
> 80
> 100
> 26.91 28.33
> 25.21 26.06 23.80 24.93
> 22.10 22.10 20.68 22.66
> 18.70 18.70 17.00 16.15
> 11.05 10.76 9.35 8.50
> GLM 5.3 GPT-5.6-Sol DeepSeek
> V4 Pro
> Kimi K3 Opus 4.8 MiniMax M3 Qwen 3.7
> Flash
> GPT-5.4
> Mini
> Mistral
> Small

Figure 8: Agent performance on the 353-task pool with M I N I -SWE-A G E N T and T E R M I N U S -2. Bars show strict pass rates; lines show mean normalized grader scores. 

MI N I -SWE-A G E N T and 26.06% with T E R M I N U S -2. DeepSeek-V4 Pro follows with pass rates of 23.80% and 24.93% under the two harnesses. At the other end, the efficiency-oriented GPT-5.4-mini and Mistral Small remain below 12% under both harnesses. The nearly 20-point spread between the strongest and weakest configurations shows that the benchmark meaningfully differentiates current model capabilities, while the low absolute pass rates leave substantial room for future progress. 

Fine-grained repair performance. To examine agent performance beyond the binary pass criterion, we also report the mean normalized grader score. As shown previously in Figure 3, the vulnerable repositories obtain a mean score of 44.5 before repair. After agent intervention, the mean scores range from 50.87 to 76.43 across model–harness configurations, showing that agents often make measurable progress even when they do not achieve a complete repair. Nevertheless, the weakest configuration improves over the vulnerable seed by only 6.37 points, and even the strongest mean score remains 23.57 points below a fully correct repair. Thus, frontier agents recover some functional and security behavior but still leave a substantial gap to complete verification. Kimi K3 obtains the highest mean score under both harnesses, reaching 76.43 with MI N I -SWE-A G E N T and 75.07 with T E R M I N U S -2, whereas GLM-5.3 achieves the highest pass rate. 

Harness choice affects absolute performance but not the broad ranking. The two harnesses produce broadly consistent model orderings, but their absolute behavior differs. T E R M I N U S -2 achieves a higher pass rate for several models, including GLM-5.3, GPT-5.6-Sol, and DeepSeek-V4 Pro, while M I N I -SWE-A G E N T 

obtains a higher mean grader score across the evaluated backbones. Thus, a harness can change the likelihood of reaching an exact solution without uniformly improving partial coverage of the grader requirements. 

4.4 Patch-Level Review Scope and comparison. Across all 353 tasks, we supplement executable tests with reference-based as-sessment of agent patches using GPT-5.6-Luna. For each submitted repair ∆, we obtain two independent judgments in separate model calls. Each call receives the same task requirements, relevant repository con-text, submitted changes, reference patch ∆⋆, and test results, without access to the other judgment. The reference establishes the intended security requirements; alternative implementations can receive favorable judgments when they satisfy those requirements. The comparison concerns repair semantics rather than textual similarity. 

Judging criteria. Both judgments use the same rubric to assess whether the patch addresses the vulnera-bility’s root cause, covers the affected functions and execution paths, and preserves required application                     

> 12 Table 3: Patch-level review outcomes.
> Review outcome Count / Total Share (%)
> Patches assessed by both judges 353 / 353 100.0 Judge ratings within tolerance ( |r1−r2| ≤ 20) 312 / 353 88.4 Referred for expert review ( |r1−r2|>20) 41 / 353 11.6 Expert-reviewed patches judged incomplete 29 / 41 70.7 Test-passing patches judged incomplete by an expert 8 / 100 8.0

behavior. Each returns a repair-correctness rating on a 0–100 scale and a concise rationale grounded in specific code changes or remaining omissions. A rating of 0 denotes no effective repair, while 100 denotes a complete repair satisfying the task requirements. This review complements exploit-based testing by examin-ing whether a patch enforces the underlying security requirement beyond the particular inputs exercised by the tests. 

Disagreement and expert review. Let r1, r2 ∈ [0, 100 ] denote the two ratings. A submission is referred to a security expert when |r1 − r2| > 20, corresponding to a disagreement threshold of τ = 20 points. The expert reviews the submission, reference patch, test evidence, and both rationales to adjudicate the disagreement. The two ratings and any expert decision are retained with their supporting evidence. Patch-level judgments provide supplementary evidence of repair correctness; the reported pass rates and mean evaluation scores follow the executable scoring protocol in Section 4.1. 

Review outcomes. Table 3 presents outcomes for one submitted patch per task. We report the proportion of judge ratings within the disagreement threshold and the fraction requiring expert review. We separately report expert judgments of incomplete repair, including cases that pass the executable tests. The latter distinguishes test success from reference-based assessment of whether the underlying security requirements are fully addressed. 

4.5 Efficiency of Adaptive Evaluation Does adaptive evaluation reduce the number of tasks needed? We measure efficiency using the information-gap function Gt(θ) defined in Section 3.6. We report the normalized maximum gap eGt = max θ∈Θ Gt (θ)  

> max θ∈ΘG1(θ)

, where 

Θ is a fixed grid spanning the ability range estimated from the shared initial batch. Lower values indicate a smaller worst-case information gap. Figure 9 compares our IRT-guided policy with random synthesis and one-shot synthesis. All strategies start with the same 150 tasks and use identical validation procedures. Adaptive synthesis reaches the target eGt ≤ 0.30 after 244 accepted tasks, compared with 328 for random and 346 for one-shot synthesis. These correspond to reductions of 25.6% and 29.5%, respectively. Agent feedback thus helps target under-measured ability regions with fewer accepted tasks. 

Held-out agents. We examine whether the evaluation efficiency of S E C PR O B E transfers to models that do not participate in task construction or calibration. We partition the nine backbones into six construction models and three held-out models, keeping both harnesses of each backbone in the same partition. Only the construction models provide feedback for adaptive synthesis and item calibration. The resulting 353-task pool and item-parameter posterior are fixed before evaluating the six held-out model–harness configurations. Their responses update only their own ability estimates, without revising item parameters or generating further tasks. 

Assessment protocol. All policies start with the same 20 tasks and select without replacement from the same pool. Adaptive selection maximizes expected Fisher information under the current ability posterior, accounting for uncertainty in the fixed item calibration. Baselines use uniform random selection or a fixed ordering by expected information under the initial ability prior. Across 20 shared initialization seeds, we compare ability estimates with posterior means from all 353 tasks, used solely as assessment references. Task selection uses only responses observed so far. 

> 13

Normalized maximum information gap       

> Adaptive Random One-shot
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Target gap 0.30
> 150 230 280 320 353
> Cumulative accepted tasks
> 0.12

Accepted tasks to reach gap 0.30     

> 0100 200 300 400
> Adaptive
> 244
> Random
> 328
> One-shot
> 346

Figure 9: Adaptive evaluation versus random and one-shot baselines. Left shows the normalized maximum informa-tion gap as tasks accumulate; right shows the accepted tasks needed to reach a gap of 0.30. 

Table 4: Ability-estimation efficiency on held-out agents. RMSE is relative to full-pool ability estimates.        

> Ability RMSE ↓
> Policy 100 tasks 200 tasks Tasks to reach RMSE ≤0.15 ↓

Adaptive 0.180 0.110 140 Random 0.240 0.140 181 Fixed order 0.260 0.145 194 

Table 5: Robustness of agent rankings and task selection to the IRT specification.    

> Model Ability rank Spearman ρTop-20 selection overlap (%)

Rasch (1PL) 0.96 80 2PL Reference Reference Hierarchical 2PL 0.98 90 

Efficiency on unseen models. Table 4 reports ability RMSE across held-out configurations and seeds at budgets of 100 and 200 tasks, and the smallest budget beyond which RMSE stays at or below 0.15. Errors use the calibration ability scale, and all budgets include the initial 20 tasks. In the comparison, adaptive selection reaches the target with 140 tasks, versus 181 for random selection and 194 for the fixed ordering, with lower error at both common budgets. 

Robustness to the IRT specification. We examine whether the choice of IRT model changes agent rankings or adaptive task selection. We compare the unidimensional 2PL model used by S E C PR O B E with Rasch (1PL), which fixes item discrimination, and a hierarchical 2PL model that allows agent-specific strengths across languages and security categories, 

pij = σ

h

αi



θj + uj,ℓ(i) + vj,g(i) − βi

i 

, (9) where ℓ(i) and g(i) denote task i’s language and security category. Centered, partially pooled effects u and v

capture deviations from overall ability. All models use the same observed responses, candidate pool, and selection policy. We measure agreement with 2PL using Spearman correlation of posterior-mean overall ability rankings and the fraction of shared tasks among the next 20 selections. As shown in Table 5, Rasch and hierarchical 2PL yield rank correlations of 0.96 and 0.98 with 2PL, respectively, and retain 16 and 18 of its 20 selected tasks. This agreement indicates that agent rankings and task selection are relatively stable across simpler and richer IRT specifications. 

> 14

Table 6: Difficulty-control validation. 

Setting Pass rate (%) ↓ Mean score ↓ Ordered (%) ↑

OVERALL DIFFICULTY LEVELS 

Easy 44.0 ±3.2 78.6 ±2.0 –Medium 27.3 ±2.8 67.3 ±2.2 83.3 Hard 13.3 ±2.1 55.8 ±2.4 80.0 

INDIVIDUAL COMPLEXITY EFFECTS 

Repository complexity −8.0 ±3.1 −5.4 ±2.2 73.3 Vulnerability complexity −13.3 ±3.8 −9.1 ±2.7 86.7 Evaluation complexity −10.0 ±3.4 −7.3 ±2.4 80.0 Task input 

Configuration writes are queued 

from the primary and debug 

endpoints of a single-process 

service. 

Security contract.  After revocation 

returns, pending writes using that 

session must not commit. Valid 

admin jobs must still work. 

> Repository

request_router.py 

# authenticate, enqueue 

auth_boundary.py 

# sessions and revocation 

job_queue.py 

# pending jobs 

worker.py 

# execute queued writes 

config_ledger.py 

# protected state 

... 

> job_queue.py: frozen identity

@dataclass(frozen= True )

class  Job :

... 

token:  str 

principal: Principal 

key:  str 

value:  str 

Reference patch 

> auth_boundary.py: live lookup

def  require_active (self, token): 

with  self.commit_lock: 

session = (

self.sessions.get(token)) 

if  (session is  None  or 

session.revoked): 

raise  Denied( 

"inactive session" )

if  (self.clock() >= 

session.expires_at): 

raise  Denied( 

"expired session" )

return  session.principal 

> auth_boundary.py: shared lock

def  revoke (self, token): 

with  self.commit_lock: 

... 

session.revoked = True 

> worker.py: atomic check and commit

def  run_job (self, job): 

auth, ledger = (

self.auth, self.ledger) 

with  auth.commit_lock: 

live = auth. require_active (

job.token) 

auth. require_admin (live) 

ledger.set( 

job.key, job.value) 

Incomplete patch 

> request_router.py: entry checks

def  enqueue (

self, token, key, value): 

... 

principal = (

auth. require_active (token)) 

auth. require_admin (

principal) 

ledger.validate( 

key, value) 

job = queue. enqueue (

token, principal, 

key, value) 

return  job 

> auth_boundary.py: role check only

@staticmethod 

def  require_admin (principal): 

if  principal.role !=  "admin" :

raise  Denied( 

"administrator required" ,

status=403) 

> worker.py: stale principal

def  run_job (self, job): 

auth, ledger = (

self.auth, self.ledger) 

auth. require_admin (

job.principal )

ledger.set( 

job.key, job.value) 

Revocation test 

> test_security.py: request-level test

def  assert_revocation_policy( 

worker_type): 

app = Application(worker_type) 

... 

queued = app. post (

"/api/admin/config" ,

S, 

key= "mode" ,

value= "maintenance" 

)

revoked = app. post (

"/api/admin/revoke" ,

R, 

token=S 

)

assert  queued.status == 202 

assert  revoked.status == 204 

app.worker. run_next () 

assert  (

app.ledger[ "mode" ]

==  "safe" )

S: compromised admin session. R: trusted 

responder. Revocation finishes before the 

worker runs. 

> Results on both endpoints

Patch  Job  Mode 

Incomplete  committed  maintenance 

Reference  denied  safe 

Figure 10: An example of an agent failure of incomplete repair. 

4.6 Validating Difficulty Control Can S E C PR O B E reliably control task difficulty? We evaluate difficulty control using 30 matched task triplets. Within each triplet, the CWE class and software specification are fixed, while the difficulty-control vector is set to Easy, Medium, or Hard. Each of the 90 task variants is attempted five times by GPT-5.6-Sol with M I N I -SWE-A G E N T , producing 450 runs under the same execution and scoring protocol. We compare pass rate and mean grader score across the three levels and record whether each triplet follows the intended ordering. For the one-factor interventions, we vary repository, vulnerability, or evaluation complexity while holding the remaining controls fixed, allowing the effect of each control family to be measured separately. As shown in Table 6, the pass rate decreases from 44.0% to 13.3% and the mean grader score from 78.6 to 55.8 from Easy to Hard, while 73.3% of matched triplets follow the complete requested ordering. One-factor interventions further show that repository, vulnerability, and evaluation controls each increase empirical difficulty, with vulnerability complexity producing the largest effect. 

15 Table 7: Failure modes of unsuccessful repair attempts.                  

> Primary failure mode Description Count Share (%)
> Incomplete repair coverage Repairs some affected functions or paths while leaving others unprotected. 96 37.9 Incorrect diagnosis or localization Targets the wrong root cause, security mechanism, or code location. 58 22.9 Missed application or state constraints Fails to enforce authorization rules, permitted values, or lifecycle requirements. 52 20.6 Repair-induced regression Introduces changes that break required behavior or component interfaces. 24 9.5 Other or unresolved No effective repair, execution failure, or insufficient evidence for attribution. 23 9.1 Total nonpassing attempts 253 100.0

4.7 Failure Analysis Why can an agent repair leave a vulnerability exploitable? Our review highlights three challenges in identifying and repairing repository-level vulnerabilities. First , a vulnerability can require coordinated changes across multiple functions or files. An agent may repair one affected operation while leaving another path unprotected, allowing the same security requirement to be bypassed elsewhere. Second , incomplete diagnosis or localization can lead to a patch that addresses only part of the problem. The agent may harden a visible operation while leaving an unsafe decision in a helper function unchanged, or fix input handling without correcting the authorization check that permits access. Third , some vulnerabilities arise from application logic rather than an isolated unsafe statement. Correct repair requires understanding who may perform an operation, under what conditions, and how earlier actions change those conditions. Missing these relationships can leave a patch that handles individual requests correctly but fails across a sequence of operations. Such omissions can escape the agent’s own tests when another check produces the expected rejection. Figure 10 illustrates an incomplete repair; Table 7 summarizes the failure modes, and Appendix B provides three further recorded examples. 

Failure patterns. Table 7 distinguishes failures in repair coverage, diagnosis, and application-level reasoning. An agent may identify a relevant security mechanism but repair only some affected functions or paths. Alternatively, incorrect diagnosis or localization can direct edits away from the underlying flaw. Application-level failures arise when a patch overlooks authorization rules, permitted values, or state transitions that determine whether an operation is safe. Repairs can also introduce regressions by changing required behavior or component interfaces. These distinctions motivate checking both the completeness of a repair across the repository and its consistency with the application’s security requirements. 

4.8 Cost 

Task-generation cost in S E C PR O B E is controlled through the model configuration and generation workflow. We use GPT-5.6-Luna with medium reasoning effort for all five specialist agents. At the time of our experi-ments, GPT-5.6-Luna was priced at $0.20 per million input tokens, $0.02 per million cached-input tokens, and $1.20 per million output tokens. Fixed tool-turn and command limits and at most ten repair rounds per task bound generation effort. Adaptive evaluation reduces later batch sizes and directs new task generation toward ability regions where additional evidence is needed. Constructing a repository-scale task costs approximately $0.64 under our configuration. A linear projection at the same observed rate places the model cost of generating 353 tasks at approximately $226.24, although the realized cost varies with repository complexity, token usage, and the number of repair rounds. This 

> 16

estimate concerns task generation only and excludes the cost of evaluating frontier coding agents on the completed tasks. 

Evaluation API cost. We estimate an API budget of approximately $5,000, including contingency, for evaluating all 353 tasks once with nine model backbones under both M I N I -SWE-A G E N T and T E R M I N U S -2. This recurring expense motivates adaptive evaluation that reduces the number of task attempts needed for informative assessment. 

## 5 Conclusion 

We introduced S E C PR O B E , a framework for adaptive evaluation of coding-agent vulnerability awareness that connects IRT-based task selection with on-demand multi-agent synthesis. As one application, we constructed 353 tasks spanning six programming languages and 151 CWE types and evaluated nine frontier models with two agent harnesses. Quantitative analysis and expert review support the quality of the generated tasks, while adaptive evaluation reduces the number of tasks needed to reach the assessment target. The strongest evaluated configuration achieves only a 28.33% success rate, revealing substantial remaining challenges in identifying and repairing vulnerabilities. S E C PR O B E provides a framework for directing evaluation toward these capability gaps and renewing assessment as coding agents evolve. 

## Broader Impact and Responsible Use 

SE C PR O B E is intended to support defensive evaluation of coding agents’ ability to identify and repair vulnerabilities. Task construction and exploitation tests operate on synthetic repositories in isolated environ-ments, without attacking live third-party systems. The research stage consults public security documentation, while subsequent construction and review stages operate locally. Nevertheless, generated vulnerable code and exploit examples have dual-use potential and could be adapted for misuse; isolation limits the imme-diate exposure of our experiments but does not eliminate this broader risk. Moreover, the synthetic task distribution does not represent all deployed software, and success on these tasks should not be interpreted as a guarantee of secure deployment. Expert review assesses the generated software artifacts using the criteria in Section 4.2. 

## AI Use Statement 

Generative AI is integral to S E C PR O B E task construction. As described in Section 3.3, specialized LLM agents research vulnerability classes, design tasks, construct repositories and reference repairs, develop tests, and review generated artifacts. Our implementation uses GPT-5.6-Luna with medium reasoning effort for these agents. Generated tasks undergo the executable checks described in Section 3.4; expert assessment of task quality is described in Section 4.2. We also used AI assistants to help refine manuscript text, figures, and tables. The authors take responsibility for the final text, claims, and code. 

## Reproducibility Statement 

Section 3 specifies the task formulation, multi-agent workflow, difficulty controls, and adaptive evalua-tion policy. Appendix A documents the implementation and artifact organization, Appendix A.1 reports generation and IRT settings, and Section 3.4 describes task validation and revision. The agent execution environment, resource budgets, and scoring protocol are detailed in Section 4.1. Section 4.2 provides the expert assessment criteria, and Appendix C supplies specialist-agent prompt templates. These specifications support replication of the procedure, although stochastic generation and changes to externally hosted models can affect exact outputs. 

> 17

## References 

Anthropic. Introducing Claude Opus 4.8, May 2026. URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/ claude-opus-4-8 . Accessed: 2026-08-15. Junkai Chen, Huihui Huang, Yunbo Lyu, Junwen An, Jieke Shi, Chengran Yang, Ting Zhang, Haoye Tian, Yikun Li, Zhenhao Li, Xin Zhou, Xing Hu, and David Lo. SecureVibeBench: Benchmarking secure vibe coding of AI agents via reconstructing vulnerability-introducing scenarios. In Proceedings of the 64th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 24144–24168, San Diego, California, United States, July 2026. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-390-6. doi: 10.18653/v1/2026.acl-long.1107. URL 

https://aclanthology.org/2026.acl-long.1107/ .John Chung, Ece Kamar, and Saleema Amershi. Increasing diversity while maintaining accuracy: Text data generation with large language models and human interventions. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 575–593, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.34. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.34/ .Haixing Dai, Zhengliang Liu, Wenxiong Liao, Xiaoke Huang, Yihan Cao, Zihao Wu, Lin Zhao, Shaochen Xu, Fang Zeng, Wei Liu, Ninghao Liu, Sheng Li, Dajiang Zhu, Hongmin Cai, Lichao Sun, Quanzheng Li, Dinggang Shen, Tianming Liu, and Xiang Li. AugGPT: Leveraging ChatGPT for Text Data Augmentation . IEEE Transactions on Big Data , 11(03):907–918, June 2025. ISSN 2332-7790. doi: 10.1109/TBDATA.2025.3536934. URL https://doi. ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/TBDATA.2025.3536934 .Tim R. Davidson, Benoit Seguin, Enrico Bacis, Cesar Ilharco, and Hamza Harkous. Orchestrating synthetic data with reasoning. In Will Synthetic Data Finally Solve the Data Access Problem? , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/ forum?id=VOoeogZbMb .DeepSeek-AI. Deepseek-v4: Towards highly efficient million-token context intelligence, 2026. URL https://arxiv. org/abs/2606.19348 .Xiang Deng, Jeff Da, Edwin Pan, Yannis Yiming He, Charles Ide, Kanak Garg, Niklas Lauffer, Andrew Park, Nitin Pasari, Chetan Rane, et al. SWE-bench pro: Can AI agents solve long-horizon software engineering tasks? In Forty-third International Conference on Machine Learning , 2026. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=uEVTdoAbnK .Yuchuan Fu, Xiaohan Yuan, and Dongxia Wang. Ras-eval: A comprehensive benchmark for security evaluation of llm agents in real-world environments, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.15253 .Alex Havrilla, Andrew Dai, Laura O’Mahony, Koen Oostermeijer, Vera Zisler, Alon Albalak, Fabrizio Milo, Sharath Chan-dra Raparthy, Kanishk Gandhi, Baber Abbasi, Duy Phung, Maia Iyer, Dakota Mahan, Chase Blagden, Srishti Gureja, Mohammed Hamdy, Wen-Ding Li, Giovanni Paolini, Pawan Sasanka Ammanamanchi, and Elliot Meyerson. Sur-veying the effects of quality, diversity, and complexity in synthetic data from large language models, 2024. URL 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02980 .Anson Ho, Jean-Stanislas Denain, David Atanasov, Samuel Albanie, and Rohin Shah. A rosetta stone for ai benchmarks, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.00193 .Yue Huang, Zhengzhe Jiang, Xiaonan Luo, Kehan Guo, Haomin Zhuang, Yujun Zhou, Zhengqing Yuan, Xiaoqi Sun, Jules Schleinitz, Yanbo Wang, Shuhao Zhang, Mihir Surve, Nitesh V Chawla, Olaf Wiest, and Xiangliang Zhang. Chemorch: Empowering LLMs with chemical intelligence via groundbreaking synthetic instructions. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2025a. URL https://openreview.net/forum? id=W0eTcFyx44 .Yue Huang, Siyuan Wu, Chujie Gao, Dongping Chen, Qihui Zhang, Yao Wan, Tianyi Zhou, Chaowei Xiao, Jianfeng Gao, Lichao Sun, et al. Datagen: Unified synthetic dataset generation via large language models. In The Thirteenth Interna-tional Conference on Learning Representations , 2025b. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=F5R0lG74Tu .Matous Kozak, Roshanak Zilouchian Moghaddam, and Kalpathy Sivaraman. When developer aid becomes security debt: A systematic analysis of insecure behaviors in LLM coding agents. In Workshop on Scaling Environments for Agents , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=k6QhzThVSS .Xunhao Lai, Weiqi Xu, Yufeng Yang, Qiaorui Chen, Yang Xu, Lunbin Zeng, Xiaolong Li, Haohai Sun, Haichao Zhu, Vito Zhang, Jinkai Hu, Jiayao Li, Rui Gao, Zekun Li, Songquan Zhu, Jingkai Zhou, and Pengyu Zhao. Minimax sparse attention, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.13392 .Yicheng Lang, Kehan Guo, Yue Huang, Yujun Zhou, Haomin Zhuang, Tianyu Yang, Yao Su, and Xiangliang Zhang. Beyond single-value metrics: Evaluating and enhancing llm unlearning with cognitive diagnosis. In Findings of 

> 18

the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025 , pages 21397–21420, Vienna, Austria, July 2025. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-256-5. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.findings-acl.1102. URL https: //aclanthology.org/2025.findings-acl.1102/ .Hwiwon Lee, Ziqi Zhang, Hanxiao Lu, and Lingming Zhang. Sec-bench: Automated benchmarking of llm agents on real-world software security tasks. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=QQhQIqons0 .Seongyun Lee, Sue Hyun Park, Seungone Kim, and Minjoon Seo. Aligning to thousands of preferences via system message generalization. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2024. URL 

https://openreview.net/forum?id=recsheQ7e8 .Ruibo Liu, Jerry Wei, Fangyu Liu, Chenglei Si, Yanzhe Zhang, Jinmeng Rao, Steven Zheng, Daiyi Peng, Diyi Yang, Denny Zhou, and Andrew M. Dai. Best practices and lessons learned on synthetic data. In First Conference on Language Modeling , 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=OJaWBhh61C .Xiangyan Liu, Bo Lan, Zhiyuan Hu, Yang Liu, Zhicheng Zhang, Fei Wang, Michael Qizhe Shieh, and Wenmeng Zhou. Codexgraph: Bridging large language models and code repositories via code graph databases. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 142–160, Albuquerque, New Mexico, April 2025. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-189-6. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.naacl-long.7. URL https:// aclanthology.org/2025.naacl-long.7/ .Xianzhen Luo, Jingyuan Zhang, Shiqi Zhou, Jinyang Huang, Chuan Xiao, Qingfu Zhu, Zhiyuan Ma, Xing Yue, Yang Yue, Wencong Zeng, et al. Cve-factory: Scaling expert-level agentic tasks for code security vulnerability. In Forty-third International Conference on Machine Learning , 2026a. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=BkMSFFtm5M .Xiaonan Luo, Yue Huang, Ping He, and Xiangliang Zhang. Better datasets start from refinelab: Automatic optimization for high-quality dataset refinement. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 40(38):32374–32382, 2026b. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v40i38.40512. URL https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v40i38.40512 .Jeffrey Jian Ma, Milad Hashemi, Amir Yazdanbakhsh, Kevin Swersky, Ofir Press, Enhui Li, Vijay Janapa Reddi, and Parthasarathy Ranganathan. Swe-fficiency: Can language models optimize real-world repositories on real workloads? In Forty-third International Conference on Machine Learning , 2026. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id= 0pyFbZSfbT .Leland McInnes, John Healy, and James Melville. UMAP: Uniform manifold approximation and projection for dimension reduction. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.03426 , 2018. Mike Merrill, Alexander Shaw, Nicholas Carlini, Boxuan Li, Harsh Raj, Ivan Bercovich, Lin Shi, Jeong Shin, Thomas Walshe, E Kelly Buchanan, et al. Terminal-bench: Benchmarking agents on hard, realistic tasks in command line interfaces. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2026. URL https://openreview. net/forum?id=a7Qa4CcHak .Mistral AI. Introducing Mistral Small 4, March 2026. URL https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-small-4/ .Published March 16, 2026. Yutao Mou, Xiao Deng, Yuxiao Luo, Shikun Zhang, and Wei Ye. Can you really trust code copilot? evaluating large language models from a code security perspective. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 17349–17369, Vienna, Austria, July 2025. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-251-0. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.acl-long.849. URL https:// aclanthology.org/2025.acl-long.849/ .OpenAI. Introducing GPT-5.4 mini and nano, March 2026a. URL https://openai.com/index/ introducing-gpt-5-4-mini-and-nano/ . Published March 17, 2026. OpenAI. GPT-5.6, 2026b. URL https://openai.com/index/gpt-5-6/ . Accessed: 2026-08-15. Yotam Perlitz, Elron Bandel, Ariel Gera, Ofir Arviv, Liat Ein-Dor, Eyal Shnarch, Noam Slonim, Michal Shmueli-Scheuer, and Leshem Choshen. Efficient benchmarking (of language models). In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,pages 2519–2536, Mexico City, Mexico, June 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024. naacl-long.139. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.naacl-long.139/ .Felipe Maia Polo, Lucas Weber, Leshem Choshen, Yuekai Sun, Gongjun Xu, and Mikhail Yurochkin. tinybenchmarks: evaluating llms with fewer examples. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning , 2024. URL https: //openreview.net/forum?id=qAml3FpfhG .

> 19

Qwen Team. Qwen3.7, August 2026. URL https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.7 . Published August 24, 2026. Muhammad Shihab Rashid, Christian Bock, Yuan Zhuang, Alexander Buchholz, Tim Esler, Simon Valentin, Luca Franceschi, Martin Wistuba, Prabhu Teja Sivaprasad, Woo Jung Kim, Anoop Deoras, Giovanni Zappella, and Laurent Callot. Swe-polybench: A multi-language benchmark for repository level evaluation of coding agents, 2025. URL 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08703 .Arij Riabi, Thomas Scialom, Rachel Keraron, Benoît Sagot, Djamé Seddah, and Jacopo Staiano. Synthetic data augmentation for zero-shot cross-lingual question answering. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 7016–7030, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, Novem-ber 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.562. URL https: //aclanthology.org/2021.emnlp-main.562/ .Haris Riaz, Sourav Sanjukta Bhabesh, Vinayak Arannil, Miguel Ballesteros, and Graham Horwood. MetaSynth: Meta-prompting-driven agentic scaffolds for diverse synthetic data generation. In Findings of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics: ACL 2025 , pages 18770–18803, Vienna, Austria, July 2025. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-256-5. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.findings-acl.962. URL https://aclanthology.org/ 2025.findings-acl.962/ .Amirali Sajadi, Kostadin Damevski, and Preetha Chatterjee. How safe are ai-generated patches? a large-scale study on security risks in llm and agentic automated program repair on swe-bench, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2507.02976 .Timo Schick and Hinrich Schütze. Generating datasets with pretrained language models. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 6943–6951, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, November 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.555. URL 

https://aclanthology.org/2021.emnlp-main.555/ .Tianneng Shi, Robin Rheem, Dongwei Jiang, Mona Wang, Francisco De La Riega, Zhun Wang, Jingzhi Jiang, Alexan-der Cheung, Sean Tai, Jonah Cha, et al. Cybergym-e2e: Scalable real-world benchmark for ai agents’ end-to-end cybersecurity capabilities. In Forty-third International Conference on Machine Learning , 2026. URL https: //openreview.net/forum?id=jXaBRLQrcM .Jeremy Spence, Nicholas Assaderaghi, Jinhao Zhu, Nikil Ravi, Raluca Ada Popa, Guannan Wei, Yangruibo Ding, and Zhuo Zhang. The next challenge for agentic cybersecurity: A realistic, contamination-free reverse engineering benchmark, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.11469 .Kimi Team. Kimi k3: Open frontier intelligence, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.24653 .Sang Truong, Yuheng Tu, Percy Liang, Bo Li, and Sanmi Koyejo. Reliable and efficient amortized model-based evaluation. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id= HDbWrsgkB9 .Konstantinos Vergopoulos, Mark Niklas Müller, and Martin Vechev. Automated benchmark generation for repository-level coding tasks. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning , 2025. URL https://openreview. net/forum?id=qnE2m3pIAb .Rajan Vivek, Kawin Ethayarajh, Diyi Yang, and Douwe Kiela. Anchor points: Benchmarking models with much fewer examples. In Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 1576–1601, St. Julian’s, Malta, March 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.eacl-long.95. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.eacl-long.95/ .Tobias von Arx, Niels Mündler, Mark Vero, Maximilian Baader, and Martin Vechev. Autobaxbuilder: Bootstrapping code security benchmarking. In Forty-third International Conference on Machine Learning , 2026. URL https://openreview. net/forum?id=J5KrubuRAJ .Haoran Wang, Zhenyu Hou, Yao Wei, Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong. Swe-dev: Building software engineering agents with training and inference scaling. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025 , pages 3742–3761, Vienna, Austria, July 2025a. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-256-5. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.findings-acl.193. URL https://aclanthology.org/2025.findings-acl.193/ .Junhao Wang, Daoguang Zan, Shulin Xin, Siyao Liu, Yurong Wu, and Kai Shen. Swe-mirror: Scaling issue-resolving datasets by mirroring issues across repositories, 2025b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.08724 .Peiran Wang, Xiaogeng Liu, and Chaowei Xiao. Cve-bench: Benchmarking llm-based software engineering agent’s ability to repair real-world cve vulnerabilities. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 4207–4224, 

> 20

Albuquerque, New Mexico, April 2025c. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-189-6. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.naacl-long.212. URL https://aclanthology.org/2025.naacl-long.212/ .Zhun Wang, Nico Schiller, Hongwei Li, Srijiith Sesha Narayana, Milad Nasr, Nicholas Carlini, Xiangyu Qi, Eric Wallace, Elie Bursztein, Luca Invernizzi, Kurt Thomas, Yan Shoshitaishvili, Wenbo Guo, Jingxuan He, Thorsten Holz, and Dawn Song. Exploitgym: Can ai agents turn security vulnerabilities into real attacks?, 2026a. URL https://arxiv. org/abs/2605.11086 .Zhun Wang, Tianneng Shi, Jingxuan He, Matthew Cai, Jialin Zhang, and Dawn Song. Cybergym: Evaluating ai agents’ real-world cybersecurity capabilities at scale. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations ,2026b. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=2YvbLQEdYt .Joe H. Ward, Jr. Hierarchical grouping to optimize an objective function. Journal of the American Statistical Association , 58 (301):236–244, 1963. Jerry Wei, Da Huang, Yifeng Lu, Denny Zhou, and Quoc V. Le. Simple synthetic data reduces sycophancy in large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.03958 .Zhangchen Xu, Fengqing Jiang, Luyao Niu, Yuntian Deng, Radha Poovendran, Yejin Choi, and Bill Yuchen Lin. Magpie: Alignment data synthesis from scratch by prompting aligned LLMs with nothing. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=Pnk7vMbznK .John Yang, Carlos Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=mXpq6ut8J3 .Qinyuan Ye, Harvey Yiyun Fu, Xiang Ren, and Robin Jia. How predictable are large language model capabilities? a case study on big-bench, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14947 .Z.ai. GLM-5.3: Frontier coding with emergent cyber capabilities, August 2026. URL https://z.ai/blog/glm-5.3 .Published August 14, 2026. Hanrong Zhang, Jingyuan Huang, Kai Mei, Yifei Yao, Zhenting Wang, Chenlu Zhan, Hongwei Wang, and Yongfeng Zhang. Agent security bench (asb): Formalizing and benchmarking attacks and defenses in llm-based agents. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025a. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id= V4y0CpX4hK .Letian Zhang, Quan Cui, Bingchen Zhao, and Cheng Yang. Oasis: One image is all you need for multimodal instruction data synthesis, 2025b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.08741 .Shaoqiu Zhang, Yuhang Wang, Jialiang Liang, Yuling Shi, Wenhao Zeng, Maoquan Wang, Shilin He, Ningyuan Xu, Siyu Ye, Kai Cai, and Xiaodong Gu. Swe-explore: Benchmarking how coding agents explore repositories, 2026. URL 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.07297 .Yanzhao Zhang, Mingxin Li, Dingkun Long, Xin Zhang, Huan Lin, Baosong Yang, Pengjun Xie, An Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Junyang Lin, Fei Huang, and Jingren Zhou. Qwen3 embedding: Advancing text embedding and reranking through foundation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.05176 , 2025c. Zijie Zhong, Linqing Zhong, Zhaoze Sun, Qingyun Jin, Zengchang Qin, and Xiaofan Zhang. SyntheT2C: Generating synthetic data for fine-tuning large language models on the Text2Cypher task. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics , pages 672–692, Abu Dhabi, UAE, January 2025. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL https://aclanthology.org/2025.coling-main.46/ .

> 21

## A Implementation Details 

Each task is generated in an isolated workspace organized into four artifact roots. The metadata/ root stores the structured intermediate artifacts, including the threat profile, software-scope decision, blueprint, test plan, mutations, and validation report. The reference/ root contains the secure reference implementation; 

task/ contains the vulnerable repository released to solvers; and grader/ contains the hidden tests and scoring script. Filesystem access is mediated by four audited tools: list_files , read_file , write_file , and run_command .Before each stage, the orchestrator assigns a stage-specific capability set, against which all requested paths are resolved. Requests outside the assigned set are rejected. These capability boundaries enforce the separation of task construction, review, and hidden evaluation. In particular, the stage that authors Tfunc and Tsec 

may read only metadata/ and task/ , and therefore cannot inspect the secure reference implementation. Conversely, stages that construct the released repository cannot access grader/ . The run_command tool accepts an argv vector rather than a shell string and applies a timeout to every invocation, preventing generated content from being interpreted as shell syntax. 

A.1 Hyperparameter Settings Software levels. The software specification s selects one of three deployment scopes: (i) Library component: a cohesive, reusable implementation exposed through a programmatic API. A caller or component-level test harness invokes its functionality; a standalone application lifecycle is not required. (ii) Single-process application: an executable application or worker with its own lifecycle, an externally ac-cessible entrypoint, and application-level state and workflows. Tests exercise the application boundary through a subprocess or loopback interface, while the application logic executes within one process. (iii) Multi-service application: at least two independently startable service-like units, such as services, work-ers, or databases, connected by an explicit local network flow. Integration tests exercise a meaningful inter-service trust boundary rather than replacing communication with in-process calls. 

Difficulty control. The difficulty-control vector h of Section 3.5 is realized as twelve integer lower bounds that are injected into the relevant stage prompts and then re-verified against the generated artifacts. Each coordinate specifies a requested minimum for the following quantity: 

Repository scale, h repo . n loc counts source lines in non-test implementation files, excluding blank and comment-only lines according to the language-specific source analyzer. nfile counts those implementation files, and 

nfunc counts implemented functions and methods. 

Architecture, h arch . n comp counts interacting architectural components with distinct responsibilities; compo-nents may be modules or subsystems within a single process and need not be separate services. ndep counts declared directed dependencies between components, each specifying a source, a destination, an interaction contract, and its security relevance. napi counts public API symbols, such as exposed types, functions, and methods, whose interfaces must be preserved by a repair. 

Vulnerability complexity, h vuln . n vuln counts separately documented vulnerability instances of the selected CWE in the released repository, rather than distinct CWE classes. npath counts distinct source-to-sink attack paths per vulnerability , each connecting an attacker-controlled entrypoint or input to a security-sensitive operation. nmut counts security mutations applied independently to the secure reference and validated by the hidden grader; it is not the number of edits in a solver’s patch. 

Evaluation depth, h eval . n pub counts public test cases supplied with the task to check intended functionality. 

nhid counts hidden test cases used by the grader to assess functional and security requirements. nadv counts non-equivalent exploitation test families, distinguished by the attack mechanism or security condition they exercise rather than cosmetic payload changes. A family may contain multiple test cases, so this count is distinct from nhid .

> 22

Default bounds. Every released instance satisfies hrepo = ( nloc , nfile , nfunc ) ≥ (1000, 14, 72 ), harch = ( ncomp , ndep , napi ) ≥

(8, 10, 12 ), hvuln = ( nvuln , npath , nmut ) ≥ (3, 2, 4 ) with nmut ≤ 6, and heval = ( npub , nhid , nadv ) ≥ (20, 64, 10 ).The blueprint must additionally decompose the task into at least 32 atomic requirements, of which at least 16 are security requirements, spread over at least 4 independently scored rubric categories and 4 distinct test kinds. The release gate verifies these bounds against the generated artifacts and rejects instances that fail to meet the requested constraints. Repository-scale bounds are checked on the reference implementation; the released vulnerable repositories have a median of 1,009 source lines, and 64 of them fall below 1,000. 

Adaptive evaluation. The evaluation policy of Section 3.6 is calibrated with an agent pool A of twelve configurations, obtained by crossing six model backbones spanning weak to strong repair ability with the two agent harnesses described in Section 4.1. We fit the two-parameter logistic model with weakly informative priors θj ∼ N (0, 1 ), βi ∼ N (0, 2 2), and αi ∼ LogNormal (0, 0.5 2). We sample from the posterior 

qt using Hamiltonian Monte Carlo with four chains of 1,000 warmup and 1,000 retained draws each, giving 4,000 posterior samples, and we require ˆ R < 1.01 on every parameter before using the fit. The information gap Gt uses an ability resolution of δ = 0.5 on the logit scale and a stabilizer of ϵ = 10 −3, and the target discrimination α⋆ is the 0.75 empirical quantile of αi among accepted tasks whose posterior mean difficulty lies within δ of β⋆. The first batch is deliberately broad, |B 1| = 150, and later batches shrink as the information gap contracts, with 80, 50, 40, and 33 accepted tasks in rounds two through five for 353 in total. Assessment stops when the normalized information gap max θ Gt(θ)/ max θ G1(θ) falls below 0.15. The heuristic mappings ˆ αt and ˆ βt are refit after every batch on all accepted tasks generated so far. 

A.2 Generator Configuration 

All specialists working on a task share one model backbone. The evaluation task pool was generated with GPT-5.6-Luna at medium reasoning effort, at most 100 tool-use turns per stage, a 120 s per-command timeout, ten repair rounds, and a 1800 s budget for the containerized Linux oracle. The Online Security Researcher is the only agent with network access; it uses web search at high context size, is capped at twelve sources, and prefers material updated within the last 730 days while retaining older standards where appropriate. Every later stage reads its output as frozen, untrusted evidence. 

## B Failure Case Studies 

We complement the example in Figure 10 with three recorded submissions from our agent evaluations. The first uses GPT-5.6-Sol and the other two use Claude Opus 4.8, all with M I N I -SWE-A G E N T .

Authorization beyond path containment. In Figure 11, the agent hardens filesystem access but retains an authorization exception for caller names beginning with public-. Consequently, an unregistered caller using public-guest can read a file from the restricted vault: the agent submission returns 200 and the file contents, whereas the reference returns 403. Both implementations allow the registered caller and reject the tested traversal attempt. The repair confines where the read occurs but leaves unchecked who may perform it. 

A version conflict masking nonce reuse. In Figure 12, the agent repairs transport and session checks but leaves the nonce guard without a check for prior use. Its added test repeats an identical configuration write and observes 409, yet this rejection is caused by a stale state version. Our test supplies the current version and a valid digest while reusing the consumed nonce. The agent submission accepts the mutation and changes the setpoint from 22 to 99; the reference rejects it and preserves 22. A fresh nonce succeeds in both. Thus, rejecting an identical replay does not establish that one-time nonce consumption is enforced. 

Incomplete value validation after restricted deserialization. In Figure 13, the agent restricts pickle re-construction but retains the integer bound |x| ≤ 263 instead of the reference bound |x| ≤ 231 . A correctly authenticated primitive record containing x = 240 is therefore committed, advancing the state version from 0 to 1. The reference rejects it without changing the state or audit snapshot, while accepting ordinary  

> 23 01

Task input 

Serve vault files only to registered callers; validate authorization independently of path containment. 

Probe: GET /resource?name=hello.txt · caller = public-guest 

Unregistered caller 

public-guest 

Caller policy 

“public-” exception retained 

Contained file read 

restricted/hello.txt 

200 · content returned 

Unauthorized vault access  

> 02

Reference patch  03  Agent patch 

> app/auth.py · require caller registration

if  caller  not  in  authorized_callers(config): 

return  Decision( False , 'none' ,

'unauthorized_caller' )

> app/auth.py · vulnerable branch retained

if  (caller  not  in  authorized_callers(config) 

and  not  caller.startswith( 'public-' )): 

return  Decision( False , 'none' ,

'unauthorized_caller' )

The repaired handler still delegates to this caller policy.  

> 04

Test · resource handler 

result = read( "public-guest" , "hello.txt" )

assert  result[ "status" ] == 403 

A safe path does not establish caller permission. 

Request  Reference  Agent 

public-guest  403  200 

local-client  200  200 

../outside/sentinel.txt  400  400 Figure 11: Path containment leaves a caller-authorization bypass intact. 01  Task input 

Authenticated configuration writes require both the current state version and a fresh nonce. 

The agent repairs transport and session checks, but retains the vulnerable nonce guard.  

> 02

Reference patch 

> replay_guard.py · ReplayGuard.accept

key = (principal, nonce) 

if  (key  in  self.used  or 

len(self.used) >= self.max_entries): 

return  False 

self.used[key] = digest 

return  True  

> 03

Agent patch 

> replay_guard.py · nonce overwrite retained

key = (principal, nonce) 

if  len(self.used) >= self.max_entries: 

return  False 

self.used[key] = digest 

return  True  

> 04

Test · isolate nonce consumption 

Reference  Agent  

> 01

First write  

> version=1 nonce=N
> setpoint=22

200   

> v2 /22

200    

> v2 /22
> 02

Identical replay  

> version=1 nonce=N
> setpoint=22

409   

> v2 /22

409   

> v2 /22

Agent’s 409 is a version conflict.  

> 03

Current version, reused nonce  

> version=2 nonce=N
> setpoint=99

409   

> v2 /22

200   

> v3 /99
> State: version / setpoint. Each digest is valid.

A 409 response alone does not prove that a nonce was consumed.  Fresh nonce: both accept 

Figure 12: A version conflict masks missing nonce-consumption checks. 

24 small-integer records. Blocking executable reconstruction leaves a separate obligation to validate the domain of accepted values; the demonstrated failure is an out-of-policy commit. 01  Task input 

Authenticate each bundle, reconstruct only approved primitives, and enforce the value policy before commit.        

> Probe: acorrectly authenticated primitive record {"x": 2**40}

Authenticate envelope 

> Valid fixture signature

Restrict reconstruction 

> No global resolution needed

Validate value domain 

> Agent retains |x| ≤ 2 63

Commit state  

> Agent: version 0 → 1
> 02

Reference patch         

> app/policy.py · integer branch
> return (( True ,'ok' )
> if abs(value) <= 2**31
> else (False ,'schema_rejected' ))
> 03

Agent patch         

> app/policy.py · permissive bound retained
> return (( True ,'ok' )
> if abs(value) <= 2**63
> else (False ,'schema_rejected' ))
> Loader hooks were hardened;
> the value-domain check was not.
> 04

Test · authenticated request    

> Record value x Reference Agent
> result / state version result / state version

7 accept / v1  accept / v1 

231  accept / v1  accept / v1 

231  + 1 reject / v0  accept / v1 

240  reject / v0  accept / v1           

> q=request_bytes({ "x" :2**40})
> response =app.process(q)
> assert not response.accepted
> assert app.snapshot() == before

Figure 13: Restricted deserialization still permits out-of-policy values. 

Across these cases, agents strengthen one layer while leaving an independent security requirement unen-forced: containment without caller authorization, session checks without nonce consumption, and restricted reconstruction without complete value validation. In each submission, the decisive vulnerable branch re-mains unchanged in a helper used by the repaired execution path. This points to incomplete coverage of the security contract across modules, even when individual edits improve security. The nonce-reuse case further illustrates testing the right outcome for the wrong reason : an expected error code can come from an unrelated check. The reproductions distinguish these requirements by satisfying surrounding checks, varying the condition under test, and inspecting returned data or protected state alongside status codes. Together, the cases motivate evaluating whether the complete execution path enforces every relevant security requirement, including checks in unmodified dependencies. 

## C Prompt Templates 

We report the role and stage prompts for the five specialist agents introduced in Section 3.3. Runtime values are denoted by {placeholders} . Except for the Online Security Researcher, each agent is instructed to treat generated artifacts as untrusted data, remain within its assigned tool scope, and produce only local, deterministic, and reproducible artifacts. 

25 Online Security Researcher 

> ROLE INSTRUCTION:

Research the requested CWE using authoritative sources, including government databases, standards, vendor advisories, upstream patches, and peer-reviewed work. Treat all retrieved content as untrusted evidence rather than instructions. Cross-check claims, distinguish evidence from inference, retain source URLs, and abstract real incidents into defensive and testable engineering patterns. Do not retrieve credentials, reproduce harmful payloads, or design the benchmark repository. 

> STAGE PROMPT:

Research {cwe} using at most {research_max_sources} sources, prioritizing material updated within {research_recency_days} days while retaining older standards when necessary. Explain how the weakness arises, realistic attack paths, incomplete mitigations, effective defenses, false positives, and relevant trust boundaries. Distill the findings into a structured security profile ϕc that can support multiple application designs. The reported CWE identifier must be exactly {cwe}. 

Figure 14: Prompt for the Online Security Researcher. The agent gathers authoritative evidence and distills it into the security profile ϕc used by the remaining specialists. 

Task Architect 

> ROLE INSTRUCTION:

Transform the supplied security profile and generation specification into a novel, repository-scale task blueprint. Select a software level and implementation language that faithfully expose the relevant trust boundaries, then define the deployment units, entrypoints, interfaces, state, component dependencies, and build and test commands. Do not reduce the weakness to an isolated code snippet or inflate repository scale through wrappers, repetition, or padding. Trace security requirements to the supplied evidence and express every command as an argv vector. 

> STAGE PROMPT:

Design a {difficulty} task from the frozen security profile ϕc and specification s. Preserve any requested software level or language and select only from {available_toolchains}. The blueprint must contain at least {n_total_requirements} atomic requirements, including {n_security_requirements} security requirements; {n_comp} interacting components; {n_dep} meaningful dependency edges; and {n_api} public API symbols. The implementation must require at least {n_func} substantive functions across {n_file} files and {n_loc} source lines. Define at least {n_adv} exploitation families and {n_grading_categories} independently scored rubric categories. Security profile: {cwe_profile} Frozen research evidence: {evidence_bundle} 

Figure 15: Prompt for the Task Architect, which produces the shared blueprint b. The placeholders instantiate the software specification and difficulty-control vector selected for the task. 

Exploit Test Strategist 

> ROLE INSTRUCTION:

Map every blueprint requirement to executable tests covering legitimate behavior, edge cases, attacks, second-order flows, false-positive guards, cross-component invariants, and plausible security mutations. Public tests must cover documented benign behavior, compatibility, and buildability without revealing attack payloads. Hidden tests must distinguish a genuine mitigation from superficial filtering or disabled functionality and must exercise the declared process or network boundaries. 

> STAGE PROMPT:

Construct a traceable exploitation test strategy q for the supplied blueprint and security profile. Include at least {n_pub} public cases, {n_hid} hidden cases, {n_test_kinds} distinct test kinds, and between {n_mut_min} and {n_mut_max} non-equivalent mutation operators. Cover all {n_adv} exploitation families through the declared entrypoints and trust boundaries. Separate the resulting checks into functional tests Tfunc and hidden security tests Tsec .Task blueprint: {task_blueprint} Security profile: {cwe_profile} 

Figure 16: Prompt for the Exploit Test Strategist, which derives the test strategy q and specifies Tfunc and Tsec .

26 Repository Engineer 

> ROLE INSTRUCTION:

Construct the complete executable instance from the frozen blueprint and test strategy. Implement the secure reference, public functional tests, hidden grader, security mutations, and vulnerable repository through the capability-separated workspace stages assigned by the orchestrator. Preserve the declared language, topology, public API, build commands, and benign behavior. The released repository must be fully implemented and contain plausible CWE-relevant defects across the required attack paths; it may not contain stubs, disabled services, missing files, leaked hidden tests, or broad functional failures. Build and test every artifact and do not modify files outside the current stage’s authorized roots. 

> STAGE PROMPT:

Construct x = ( s, Pc, Tfunc , Tsec , m) from blueprint b and strategy q. The secure reference must score 100. The vulnerable repository must contain at least {n_vuln} distinct vulnerabilities with {n_path} source-to-sink paths per vulnerability, pass all public tests, and score between {min_vulnerable_task_score} and {max_vulnerable_task_score} under the hidden grader. Implement between {n_mut_min} and {n_mut_max} non-equivalent security mutations, each of which must reduce the reference score to at most {max_mutant_score}. Record the vulnerabilities, attack paths, affected files, requirements, mutations, and expected grading categories in the manifest, then verify the declared build and test commands. 

Figure 17: Prompt for the Repository Engineer, which constructs the secure reference, vulnerable repository, func-tional and security tests, mutation set, and associated metadata under stage-specific capability restrictions. 

Security Reviewer 

> ROLE INSTRUCTION:

Independently audit the completed instance without modifying it. Inspect the authorized artifacts, run focused tests, and challenge the security assumptions, reference correctness, vulnerability realism, requirement traceability, grader coverage, information leakage, and deterministic behavior. Verify that the planted weaknesses are exploitable through the documented paths, that benign behavior is preserved, and that the evaluation recognizes complete repairs while rejecting superficial ones. Report concrete evidence for every defect. 

> STAGE PROMPT:

Audit x = ( s, Pc, Tfunc , Tsec , m) and return v ∈ { pass, revise }. Return pass only if the task is reproducible, the reference implementation satisfies all requirements, the vulnerable repository preserves intended behavior while remaining exploitable, every declared mutation is detected, and the grader reliably distinguishes secure from insecure implementations. Otherwise, return revise with the failed requirement, supporting evidence, and responsible upstream stage for each finding. 

Figure 18: Prompt for the Security Reviewer, which performs a read-only audit and returns the decision v = V (x).

27