Title: SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.04155v1

Published Time: Thu, 04 Jun 2026 00:09:28 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice 

## Tianfu Wang 

HKUST (GZ) Guangzhou, China twang566@connect.hkust-gz.edu.cn 

## Max Xiong 

Duke University Durham, USA mx71@duke.edu 

## Jianxun Lian 

MSRA Beijing, China jianxun.lian@outlook.com 

## Hongyuan Zhu 

Microsoft Beijing, China hongyuanzhu@microsoft.com 

## Zhengyu Hu 

HKUST (GZ) Guangzhou, China v-huzhengyu@microsoft.com 

## Yuxuan Lei 

Microsoft Beijing, China t-yuxuanlei@microsoft.com 

## Linxiao Gong 

HKUST (GZ) Guangzhou, China Igong265@connect.hkust-gz.edu.cn 

## Xiaofang Li 

Microsoft Beijing, China xiaofangli@microsoft.com 

## Peiting Tsai 

Microsoft Beijing, China peitingtsai@microsoft.com 

## Nicholas Jing Yuan 

Microsoft Beijing, China nicholas.yuan@microsoft.com 

## Qi Zhang 

Microsoft Beijing, China zhang.qi@microsoft.com 

Abstract 

Social skills such as negotiation and leadership are crucial for per-sonal and professional success in today’s interconnected world. However, scalable and effective training remains a significant chal-lenge due to the scarcity of expert coaching. In this paper, we introduce SocialCoach, a holistic LLM-powered agentic tutoring system for personalized social skill development at scale. First, SocialCoach automatically constructs a pedagogically-grounded, theory-to-practice knowledge corpus from diverse expert sources, leveraging a multi-agent pipeline. Second, to personalize the learn-ing journey, it employs an adaptive practice scheduling module that follows a prescription-retrieval-adaptation process. To maximize the long-term learning experience while overcoming the cold-start problem, this policy is optimized within a learner simulation en-vironment through reinforcement learning. Finally, SocialCoach integrates immersive, goal-driven practice, causality-driven profi-ciency assessment and knowledge-grounded, reflective tutoring to help address the knowing-doing gap. We deploy it in our product, EQoach, and conduct extensive experiments. The results show that SocialCoach improves simulated pathway quality and judge-rated tutoring quality over baseline approaches, while early user feedback indicates strong perceived engagement and usefulness. These find-ings suggest a practical architecture for personalized and gamified pedagogical platforms on soft skill learning. 

CCS Concepts 

• Information systems → Data mining ; • Social and profes-sional topics → Computing education .

Keywords 

Intelligent Education, Social and Emotional Learning, LLM Agent. Conflict      

> Resolution
> Emotional
> Regulation
> Persuasion &
> Negotiation
> Leadership
> Building
> Scalability Personalization Immersion Mastery
> (a) Representative Social Skills
> (b) Expert Coaching Loop
> Diverse Practical Requirements
> Material
> Preparation
> Curriculum
> Design
> Simulated
> Practice
> Knowledge
> Tutoring

Figure 1: The social skills training landscape. (a) Examples of critical social skills. (b) The typical expert coaching loop, highlighting diverse practical requirements. 

1 Introduction 

In this increasingly interconnected and collaborative global land-scape, proficiency in complex social skills is critical for both per-sonal well-being and professional success. As illustrated in Fig-ure 1(a), social skills, such as negotiation, leadership, and conflict resolution, profoundly shape an individual’s ability to navigate interpersonal environments [ 7 ]. These competencies not only un-derpin effective interpersonal relationships but also serve as sig-nificant drivers of economic value. Yet, despite their undeniable importance, the effective acquisition of these skills remains a criti-cal gap for most learners worldwide. Traditionally, expert coaching is a proven pathway for social skill development. As illustrated in Figure 1(b), this educational loop consists of several key stages, including the knowledge preparation for specialized skills, tailored curriculum design, scenario simulation for practice and providing 

> arXiv:2606.04155v1 [cs.HC] 2 Jun 2026 Tianfu Wang et al.

constructive guidance. However, effectively orchestrating these stages requires substantial human expertise and resources, which limits the scalability and accessibility of high-quality coaching [ 29 ]. The advent of Artificial Intelligence (AI) presents a transfor-mative opportunity to address these limitations. However, early AI-driven methods often selectively focus on isolated educational tasks such as social dialogue generation or knowledge tutoring, and have limited generalizability over various topics. Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated a remarkable capacity for both vast knowledge integration and context-aware dialogue generation. This is crucial to distinguish their application in declarative knowl-edge acquisition from the experiential, practice-driven nature of social skill development [ 44 ]. Several works have begun to lever-age LLM for social conversational practice [ 17 , 22 ] and to develop frameworks for specific competencies like conflict resolution [ 35 ]and empathy [ 38 ]. Despite these advances, existing approaches typically target individual coaching stages or specific social skills and do not fully meet the practical requirements. Consequently, a significant gap persists in the absence of a unified social skill devel-opment framework that can support comprehensive social skills, adaptive scenario practice, and pedagogically grounded tutoring. This highlights a clear need for a holistic framework that enables scalable, personalized training experiences. To build such a framework, three fundamental data science chal-lenges must be addressed [ 21 ]: (a) Scalable Knowledge Discovery and Structuring . To ensure pedagogical rigor, a trustworthy knowledge base must be grounded in verifiable, expert-endorsed principles. However, while LLM-generated content risks unverifiability and hallucination, expert knowledge in social coaching is predominantly unstructured and tacit, often residing in practitioner experience or scattered sources. Thus, a core challenge lies in automatically extracting, codifying, and structuring validated expertise from au-thoritative sources at scale. (b) Personalized Practice Curricula Sched-uling . Real-world learners exhibit substantial heterogeneity in their backgrounds, target skills, proficiency levels, and learning paces. Static, one-size-fits-all curricula are thus pedagogically inefficient and hinder learner engagement. Therefore, it is critical but chal-lenging to design an adaptive system that personalizes practice curricula, dynamically tailoring the learning trajectory to each in-dividual’s needs and progress. (c) Diagnostic Coaching Scaffolding Development . Effective tutoring aims to promote learner autonomy in real-world social skill application. This requires accurately as-sessing the knowledge deficits in practices and scaffolding to bridge the "knowing–doing" gap. Besides, beyond prescriptive feedback alone, the system must enable guided reflection by linking practice to theory and diagnosing skill gaps. Delivering such diagnostic, reflective guidance remains an underexplored challenge. To bridge these critical gaps, we introduce SocialCoach , a novel agentic tutoring and practice system for personalized social skill training. To ensure educational validity at scale, we develop a struc-tured framework for organizing social skill knowledge, grounded in a theory-to-practice paradigm and enriched through multi-faceted semantic associations. This is implemented via an automated pipeline that transforms unstructured expert input, such as books and pa-pers, into a coherent, structured corpus of strategic theories, illustra-tive cases, and practical scenarios. This allows the system to support both scalable knowledge retrieval and downstream personalization tasks are central to agentic tutoring. Second, to deliver a personal-ized learning experience, we model the practice scheduling task as a self-rewarding reinforcement learning (RL) problem. To overcome the classic "cold-start" challenge in personalization, we introduce a high-fidelity LLM-based user simulator that generates realistic interaction data and provides pedagogically relevant reward signals. This allows our system to efficiently learn a policy that dynamically creates and sequences practice scenarios tailored to each user’s evolving proficiency profile. Finally, to foster deep and transferable learning, we introduce a pedagogically grounded coaching loop that tightly integrates interactive practice with metacognitive scaf-folding. After a user engages in a goal-driven simulated scenario, the system performs a fine-grained diagnostic assessment of their proficiency and provides tailored guidance. Through a series of component-wise evaluations, case studies, and early product feedback, we show that SocialCoach improves simulated pathway quality and judge-rated tutoring quality over baseline approaches, while users report positive engagement and perceived usefulness. Overall, SocialCoach offers a practical ar-chitecture for agentic educational tools in soft-skill domains by integrating key layers of intelligent pedagogy. We highlight our main contributions as follows. 

• We propose a holistic agentic framework for personalized social skill training, SocialCoach. Grounded by pedagog-ical scaffolding, it closes the coaching loop of interactive practice, proficiency assessment, and tailored tutoring. 

• We systematically establish a theory-to-practice social knowl-edge framework featuring multi-faceted semantic catego-rization, and automatically construct a traceable knowledge corpus for social skill training via an LLM-powered pipeline. 

• To enhance the personalized and immersive experience, we formulate the practice curriculum scheduling as a condi-tional generative task. We also optimize it via a simulation-based RL to effectively overcome the cold-start challenge. 

• We deployed SocialCoach in our practical product and con-ducted automated evaluations, case studies, and an early user study. Results suggest promising knowledge quality, simulated pathway quality, judge-rated tutoring quality, and perceived user engagement. 

2 Related Work 

LLM-powered Tutoring Systems. LLMs are increasingly being leveraged to enhance Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS), which serve as conversational partners, moving beyond the static, content-centric traditional platforms [ 5, 20 ]. Prior work has explored spe-cialized functions within ITS, including learner profiling [ 46 ] and performance assessment [ 33 ]. Also, there are some studies on en-hancing pedagogical strategies of chatbot tutors like Socratic guid-ance [ 9, 25 ]. Furthermore, several multi-agent architectures [ 30 , 40 ]have been proposed to orchestrate complementary pedagogical roles, where specialized agents collaborate on tasks such as content creation, feedback, and evaluation. Despite these advances, most LLM-powered tutors remain oriented toward knowledge trans-mission rather than practice-based development. However, social skill learning emphasizes iterative practice, contextual sensitivity, and behavioral transfer. Thus, a critical gap remains in developing SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice Strategic      

> Theories
> Illustrative
> Cases
> Practical
> Scenarios
> Immersive Simulation -based Practice
> Knowledge -Grounded Reflective Tutoring
> Extraction
> Personal
> Information
> Refinement Filtering
> Tagging
> Online News
> Academic Papers
> Sociology Books
> Historical
> Behaviour
> Background
> Objectives
> Characters
> Raw
> Content
> Filtered
> Knowledge
> Multi -faced
> Tags
> Refined
> Knowledge
> Guidance
> Automated Knowledge Discovery
> Associated Tags
> User Social Profile
> Pedagogical Coaching Scaffolding
> Proficiency Status
> Data Sources
> Automated Knowledge Extraction
> Scenario Goal -driven Simulation
> Social Knowledge Corpus Targeted
> Knowledge
> Retrieval
> Reflective
> Feedback
> Generator
> Ending
> Human
> NPC A
> NPC B
> …
> Success Failure
> Social Skill
> Social Competency
> Scenario Topic
> CASEL
> Competencies
> Causality -Driven Proficiency Assessment
> Profile &
> Dialogue &
> Diagnosis
> Theory & Case Context
> Recorded
> Conversional
> Logs
> Performance
> Causal
> Attributor
> Social
> Behaviour
> Diagnostician
> Learner
> Prescription
> Agent
> Scenario
> Adaptation
> Agent
> Learner
> Prescription
> Personalized
> Scenario
> Adaptive Practice Scheduling
> Candidate
> Retrieval
> Module
> Scenario
> Candidate
> Targeted
> Skills

Figure 2: An overview of the SocialCoach Framework for personalized social skill training at scale. 

scalable, personalized, and pedagogically grounded LLM-driven tutoring and practice systems tailored to social skill learning [44]. 

Intelligent Social Emotional Learning. Social–emotional learn-ing (SEL) focuses on helping learners cultivate positive attitudes, self-awareness, and healthy interpersonal relationships [ 10 ]. Early AI-driven efforts in this space emphasized conversational support, real-time feedback, and scaffolds for socio-emotional growth [ 34 ]. With the rise of LLMs, the field has shifted toward adaptive, role-playing–based systems that can target specific skills with greater nuance [ 44 ]. Recent LLM-based approaches have demonstrated promise in skills such as conflict resolution [ 35 ], empathy coach-ing [ 38 ], and stress self-regulation [ 12 ] However, despite these advances, current systems are typically scoped to narrow skill ar-eas and face persistent challenges around knowledge traceability and pedagogical reliability. This fragmentation limits the scalabil-ity and pedagogical grounding of learning experiences of social skill learning. It also hinders cross-context skill transfer, creating a “knowing–doing” gap between understanding and practical use. 

Personalization in Educational System. Personalized learning experience is vital for improving efficiency and engagement as learners progress [ 27 ]. Particularly, designing adaptive learning pathways can better match individual needs than traditional or rule-based curricula. To improve path personalization, prior work [ 6 , 15 ]trains models for specific scenarios using supervised learning on well-labeled data. However, such data are often proprietary or scarce in many educational scenarios. To address such data scarcity and cold-start problem, recent studies [ 2, 24 ] use learner simulators as an environment and apply reinforcement learning (RL) to opti-mize learning path scheduling policies. However, these simulators are typically rule-based and designed for well-structured domains like mathematics and computer science [ 2]. The personalization of social skill development is further challenging, characterized by di-verse learner personas and complex situational contexts. Therefore, optimizing personalized learning pathways in this domain remains a gap, such as building highly representative simulators. 

3 Problem Definition 

Let S denote the set of available social skills, and K represent a verifiable social knowledge corpus. A user is characterized by an initial social profile 𝑈 0, which includes the persona information, target skills 𝑆 𝑈 ⊆ S , and the initial social proficiency level 𝑈 0 

> 𝑝

. At each learning session 𝑡 , based on the current user’s social profile 

𝑈 𝑡 , a practice scheduling policy 𝜋 schedules the most appropriate scenario 𝑝 𝑡 based on the knowledge corpus K. Following the inter-action with the scenario, the system updates the user’s proficiency vector to 𝑈 𝑡 +1 

> 𝑝

by assessing their performance, provides actionable guidance tailored to their needs, and adapts future scheduling dy-namically. The overarching objective of the system is to maximize learning gains and user engagement throughout their skill develop-ment journey. To achieve this objective, this system should address the challenges of scalable knowledge discovery, personalized prac-tice scheduling, and pedagogical knowledge delivery. 

4 The SocialCoach Framework 

To address these challenges, we introduce SocialCoach , an agentic tutoring and practice system designed for personalized social skill training at scale. As illustrated in Figure 2, SocialCoach holistically integrates four critical components. Firstly, it automatically con-structs a comprehensive and pedagogically-grounded social skills knowledge corpus from diverse, unstructured sources using LLMs. Second, it dynamically maintains a user’s social profile, captur-ing each learner’s attributes, behaviors, and evolving proficiency. Additionally, SocialCoach employs an adaptive practice schedul-ing policy trained with reinforcement learning to prepare scenario practices tailored to individual needs. For each practice, it delivers pedagogically grounded coaching through immersive practice, fine-grained assessment, and personalized feedback. We elaborate on each of these components below. 

4.1 Automated Knowledge Discovery 

Effective social skill training depends on the availability of high-quality, context-rich pedagogical content that reflects real-world Tianfu Wang et al. Social 

> Skills
> Scenario
> Type
> Social
> Competency
> Strategic
> Theory
> Illustrative
> Case
> Practical
> Scenario

Figure 3: The proposed theory-to-practice social knowledge framework with multi-faceted categorization perspectives. 

interpersonal challenges. However, expert knowledge in this do-main is often tacit and dispersed across unstructured sources such as books, articles, and media [ 11 ]. Manual curation of such knowledge is labor-intensive and difficult to scale, while direct LLM-based con-tent generation risks unverifiability and hallucination [ 39 ]. These methods compromise knowledge scalability or pedagogical relia-bility. To overcome these challenges, we introduce an end-to-end, LLM-driven pipeline that automatically constructs a structured and trustworthy social knowledge corpus K. This method ensures pedagogical traceability and supports diverse social skills at scale. 

4.1.1 Theory-to-Practice Knowledge Organization . Effective social skills education requires more than isolated facts or generic tips; it demands a comprehensive framework that connects abstract principles, concrete examples, and hands-on practice. Most existing approaches treat these components in isolation, limiting transfer-ability and depth of learning. We address this gap by designing a theory-to-practice knowledge framework across three pedagogi-cal levels [ 37 ]. This method ensures learners not only understand what to do, but also why and how, leading to transferable social competence. This integration comprises three interrelated layers: 

• Strategic Theories K𝑡 : Provides the conceptual "why" through abstract principles defining effective social interaction. 

• Illustrative Case K𝑐 : Bridges theory and practice by showing the "how" through concrete examples and case studies that demonstrate social principles in action. 

• Practical Scenarios K𝑠 : Enables the "doing" by immersing learners in hands-on simulations for active practice and assessment, thereby closing the "knowing-doing" gap. See our GitHub resources for these data examples. 

4.1.2 Multi-faceted Semantic Categorization . Social interac-tions are highly diverse and context-dependent, requiring not only an understanding of specific skills but also their flexible applica-tion across various scenarios. Thus, we introduce a multi-faceted semantic categorization method to structure the knowledge corpus. This method represents knowledge in a granular yet holistic way, facilitating flexible indexing and fine-grained retrieval of content based on each learner’s unique needs. Specifically, each knowledge item is categorized along the following dimensions: 

• Social Competency (C𝑐 ): Foundational social-emotional abil-ities based on widely-used CASEL theory [ 10 ], encompass-ing self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, re-lationship skills, and responsible decision-making. 

• Social Skills (C𝑠 ): Actionable, specific skills such as conflict resolution, empathy, and negotiation. Drawing from the CASEL framework, we identify 34 essential social skills that support the five core competencies 1.

• Scenario Context (C𝑡 ): Contextual categories that are de-rived from social environments and relationship dynamics, such as workplace, romantic and public situations [18]. See Appendix A.1 for detailed descriptions of these categories. 

4.1.3 LLM-Powered Corpus Construction Pipeline . To scal-ably extract pedagogical and traceable content of social knowl-edge, we introduce an automated pipeline leveraging LLM-powered multi-agent systems for efficient knowledge extraction and anno-tation [ 26 ]. This pipeline yields a structured and pedagogically grounded knowledge base, with the following principal key stages. (a) Curated Data Collection. To ensure both pedagogical value and rigor, we strategically aggregate high-quality, diverse materials on social skill. These sources include authoritative books, academic pa-pers, news articles, and other reputable resources, thereby ensuring coverage of established theories and authentic scenarios. (b) Schema-Guided Extraction . We first define the schema to rep-resent three types of social knowledge items (see Appendix A.1 for detailed schema description). Guided by this schema, an extraction agent systematically transforms the unstructured collected data into a set of structured knowledge entities. (c) Output Validation. Then, we use a filtering agent to verify that the the extracted content adheres to the schema’s format guidelines and the completeness across all required fields. (d) Multi-faceted Tagging. To structure the knowledge semanti-cally, a tagging agent annotates each knowledge item with multi-faceted categories, enabling nuanced organization. (e) Knowledge Refinement. After tagging, a refinement agent reviews and revises both the content and metadata of each item to improve quality and accuracy. This step resolves inconsistencies, such as incomplete descriptions or incorrect tag assignments. Through this multi-stage process, we construct a structured social knowledge corpus K = (K 𝑡 , K𝑐 , K𝑠 ), where each 𝑘 ∈ K is associated with semantic labels 𝑐 𝑐 ∈ C 𝑐 , 𝑐 𝑠 ∈ C 𝑠 , and 𝑐 𝑡 ∈ C 𝑡 .

4.2 User Social Profiling 

Personalized social skills training necessitates a comprehensive and adaptive understanding of each learner [ 31 ]. To this end, we construct a dynamic user profile 𝑈 𝑡 , which is continuously updated at each timestep 𝑡 throughout the learning trajectory. This profile systematically encapsulates several key aspects, detailed as follows. 

• Personal Information 𝑈 𝑡 𝑖 . Each user is initially characterized by a set of attributes, including demographics (e.g., age, gender), personality (e.g., habits, interests), and targeted social skills 𝑆 𝑈 ⊆ 𝑆 . These attributes are optionally self-reported during the onboarding process and are leveraged to tailor scenario practices and guidance content. 

> 1https://casel.org/fundamentals-of-sel/what-is-the-casel-framework SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice

• Historical Behaviors 𝑈 𝑡 𝑏 . The system continuously records a rich behavioral trace of each learner’s interactions, includ-ing completed scenarios, reflection responses, engagement metrics (e.g., session frequency, time spent), and other rel-evant activity logs. These data enables the inference of learning patterns and provides contextual signals to inform both adaptive scheduling and formative assessment. 

• Proficiency Status 𝑈 𝑡 𝑝 . To monitor learning progress, we maintain a dynamic vector representing the learner’s profi-ciency on both high-level CASEL competencies and gran-ular targeted skills. Each item is scored on a [1-5] scale, mapping to standard rubrics (i.e., 1=Novice and 5=Expert). By integrating these dimensions, we build the dynamic user profile 

𝑈 𝑡 = (𝑈 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑈 𝑡 𝑏 , 𝑈 𝑡 𝑝 ) to support a personalized learning experience. 

4.3 Adaptive Practice Scheduling via RL-Optimized Prescription Agent 

The development of social skills is experiential, and effective progress hinges on presenting each learner with the right practice at the right time. While static curricula lack enough personalization, LLM-generated content risks pedagogical value. Inspired by the expert judgment of human coaches, we introduce an adaptive practice scheduling module as an instructional planner and further optimize it using agentic RL [41] to address the cold-start issue. 

4.3.1 Prescription-Retrieval-then-Adaptation . At each ses-sion 𝑡 , we schedule a scenario practice 𝑝 𝑡 with the following stages. 

Practice Prescription . Emulating expert pedagogical reasoning, a practice prescription agent analyzes the learner’s current profile 

𝑈 𝑡 to prescribe a scenario requirement to best support the learner’s growth. This requirement consists of a brief query and optional scenario attributes used as retrieval filters (e.g., associated compe-tencies, skills, types of contextual context, etc). 

Candidate Retrieval . The prescribed requirement serves as a query and filters to retrieve the most suitable scenario from the social knowledge corpus 𝐾 𝑠 . We use a dual-retrieval combining tag-based filtering for pedagogical alignment with semantic search to identify the ideal candidate. If strict filters yield no results, we progressively relax to ensure a suitable candidate is retrieved. 

Context Adaptation . Finally, a context adaptation agent personal-izes the retrieved scenario. Based on the learner’s profile 𝑈 𝑡 , the agent selects the most suitable role in the scenario for the learner’s role-playing practice. This step maximizes the relevance and en-gagement while grounded in the trustworthy corpus. See Appendix A.2 for the prescription schema and retrievability. 

4.3.2 Representative Learner Simulation Environment . To optimize for long-term, judge-rated pathway quality and user en-gagement, the prescription policy 𝜋 necessitates high-level cog-nition of both learner’s status and our scenario corpus, requiring training for adaptation. Lacking diagnosis misaligns prescriptions with real skill gaps, and lacking corpus awareness yields subopti-mal retrieval of pedagogically aligned scenarios. However, such a real-world dataset is vacant, and collecting one is expensive and difficult to scale, which incurs the "cold-start problem". To mitigate Sampled     

> Learner
> Simulator
> Action
> Learner
> Prescription
> Agent
> Prescrip4on
> Profile State One -shot
> Reward
> Es4ma4on
> Engagement
> Learning Gain
> Reward
> Candidate Retrieval Module
> Scenarios
> in Corpus
> Practice
> Scenario
> Adaptation
> Agent
> Scenario
> Candidate

Figure 4: Scenario reference retriever optimization with re-inforcement learning from learner simulation feedback. 

this issue, we develop a simulation environment grounded in real-world data for efficient training, using role-playing capabilities of LLMs [4, 42, 49]. 

Representative Learner Profile Construction. To improve the diver-sity and realism of simulated users, we source profile information from two large-scale public datasets: SocioVerse [ 47 ], which in-cludes large-scale demographic data, and PersonaHub [ 13 ], which contains personality descriptions. We embed these items using Qwen3-Embedding-8B [ 48 ] to create semantic representations. We then apply the Maximal Marginal Relevance algorithm [ 3] to sample the top-𝑛 representative items from each set. For a highly efficient and deterministic matching process, we compute an 𝑛 ×𝑛 compatibil-ity matrix between sampled demographic profiles and personality descriptions, where each entry is the dot-product similarity of their embeddings. We then apply the Hungarian algorithm [ 23 ] to obtain a one-to-one matching that assigns each demographic profile to exactly one personality description, maximizing total compatibility. The resulting matched pairs form representative, coherent synthetic learner profiles. Finally, for each of the 𝑛 profiles, an LLM initializes 3–5 target skills, starting proficiency scores, forming a diverse and realistic simulated user base. Additionally, it also infers a learning pace 𝛼 𝑈 on a 1-5 scale (1 = slowest, 5 = fastest) and then normalizes to [0, 0.1], which modulates future proficiency score updates. 

One-Shot Reward Estimation. Running a full multi-turn dialogue simulation for every training step is computationally expensive. Since advanced LLMs like GPT-5 [ 28 ] and Qwen3 [ 43 ] have demon-strated the ability to accurately track human judgment and sim-ulate realistic social behaviors [ 16 , 19 , 45 ], we adopt a one-shot LLM-based proxy reward to facilitate efficient training and ad-dress the cold-start challenge. To ensure pedagogical reliability and prevent reward hacking, we implement an output validity bottle-neck that assigns a zero score ( 𝑟 𝑡 = 0) for any non-compliant or meaningless generation. For valid outputs, the reward is decom-posed into two standardized rubrics: a learner-simulated Engage-ment score ( 𝑟 𝑡 

> engage

) and a coach-simulated Learning Gain score (𝑟 𝑡 

> gain

), both rated on a 1–5 scale. The final reward is formulated as 

𝑟 𝑡 = 𝑟 𝑡  

> engage

+ 𝑟 𝑡  

> gain

+ 𝜂 , where 𝜂 represents a penalty factor specifi-cally for empty retrieval results caused by overly restrictive filters. To further ensure training robustness and minimize model-specific idiosyncrasies, we employ GPT-5 with a temperature of 0 and utilize rubric-grounded checklists to standardize the scoring criteria. Tianfu Wang et al. 

4.3.3 Sequential Decision Formulation . We formulate the se-quential practice scheduling task as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) with the following key components: 

• State (𝑠 𝑡 ): The learner’s dynamic profile 𝑈 𝑡 , including per-sonal information, behavior history and proficiency status. 

• Action (𝑎 𝑡 ): The practice requirement prescribed by 𝜋 .

• Reward (𝑟 𝑡 ): The reward from the simulation environment. 

• Transition (𝑃 ): The evolution of the proficiency vector. Specif-ically, the scores for the associated granular skills and cross-skill competencies of the practiced scenario are updated via 𝑈 𝑡 +1 

> 𝑝,𝑘 𝑠

= min (5, 𝑈 𝑡 𝑝,𝑘 𝑠 + 𝛼 𝑈 · 𝑟 gain ). Here, 𝛼 𝑈 ∈ [ 0, 0.1] is a normalized learning pace derived from the user’s profile. 

• Discount Factor 𝛾 balancing immediate and future reward. The objective is to find an optimal prescription policy to maximize the expected cumulative reward, 𝐸 [Í𝑇 𝑡 =0 𝛾 𝑡 𝑟 𝑡 ] for each learner. 

4.3.4 Policy Optimization from Simulation Feedback . Due to the scarcity of real-world human interaction, it is a popular way to leverage LLM-based simulated feedback as rewards to optimize the performance of the agent for human adaptation [ 32 , 42 , 45 , 50 ]. The scenario prescription policy is parameterized as an LLM. During training, for a sampled learner profile, the policy observes the state 

𝑠 𝑡 , and generates a prescription 𝑎 𝑡 . This action is used to create a practice scenario 𝑝 𝑡 , which is evaluated by the user simulator to produce a reward 𝑟 𝑡 and the next state 𝑠 𝑡 +1. These interaction trajectories (𝑠 𝑡 , 𝑎 𝑡 , 𝑟 𝑡 , 𝑠 𝑡 +1) are collected into an experience memory. We then use the multiturn agentic RL [ 41 ] to fine-tune the LLM-based policy, which effectively learns to make pedagogically sound scheduling decisions. 

4.4 Pedagogical Coaching Scaffolding 

Effective social skill acquisition requires more than passive expo-sure to content. It demands an iterative loop of guided practice, diagnostic assessment, and personalized feedback grounded in ped-agogical principles [ 1 ]. To address this, we introduce a three-stage coaching framework in SocialCoach that integrates immersive prac-tice, proficiency assessment, and reflective tutoring. By linking theory to practice, SocialCoach is designed to support deeper com-prehension and skill transfer, helping address the "knowing–doing" gap. 

4.4.1 Immersive Scenario-Based Practice . At each learning session 𝑡 , for the scheduled scenario 𝑘 𝑡 𝑠 , the social skill learning be-gins with immersive, goal-driven simulations designed to replicate real-world challenges. These tailored scenarios ensure engagement by creating a gamified practice environment. 

Goal-Driven Scenario Simulation . The practice sessions are struc-tured as goal-driven interaction games, where learners assume specific roles within challenging contexts [ 51 ]. Each session tasks the learner with achieving defined social objectives, such as mediat-ing a conflict or negotiating a compromise, while interacting with LLM-driven agents representing other participants. These agents dynamically adapt their behavior and dialogue to the learner’s actions, ensuring a realistic and responsive simulation. Sessions conclude upon goal achievement or reaching the interaction limit, with conversation logs recorded as 𝐿 𝑡 ← simulation (𝑈 𝑡 , 𝑘 𝑡 𝑠 ).

Role-Playing Consistency Enhancement To maintain realism, we infer contextual features such as power dynamics, emotional tone, and implicit social norms of virtual agents based on extracted dia-logues in the corpus. Then, we embed them into prompts to enhance the response consistency, aligning with their character roles and the scenario context, and enhancing the interaction immersion. 

4.4.2 Attribution-Based Proficiency Assessment . Upon com-pleting each practice session, SocialCoach conducts a granular pro-ficiency assessment to identify the strengths, weaknesses, and un-derlying deficits. This diagnosis combines explicit behavior analysis with reasoning-driven attribution to generate actionable insights. 

Social Behavior Diagnosis . Using an LLM-powered diagnostic agent, SocialCoach analyzes conversation logs 𝐿 𝑡 to identify explicit strategies (e.g., active listening) and implicit reasoning (e.g., emo-tional awareness), i.e., 𝐷 𝑡 𝑏 = LLM diagnosis (𝑈 𝑡 , 𝐿 𝑡 ). The agent detects and categorizes both positive and negative behaviors demonstrated during the simulation. These behaviors are mapped to CASEL com-petencies and targeted social skills, which enables precise identifi-cation of skill gaps and areas of improvement. 

Reasoning-Driven Performance Attribution . Beyond surface-level assessment, SocialCoach introduces a diagnostic attribution mech-anism to uncover the root causes behind observed negative behav-iors, i.e., 𝐷 𝑡 𝑐 = LLM attribution (𝑈 𝑡 , 𝐿 𝑡 , 𝐷 𝑡 𝑏 ). Specifically, the LLM-based agent analyzes why a learner exhibited certain actions, categoriz-ing these deficits into two types: acquisition deficits (insufficient understanding of relevant social concepts or skills due to lack of knowledge) and performance deficits (difficulty applying known skills effectively in the contexts despite possessing the necessary knowledge), grounded in social behavior disorders theory [ 14 ]. By disentangling these underlying causes, this analysis addresses not just "what went wrong" but "why it went wrong." Then, we update the learner’s proficiency vector to reflect their evolving skill profile, i.e., 𝑈 𝑡 +1 

> 𝑝

= LLM profiling (𝑈 𝑡 , 𝐿 𝑡 , 𝐷 𝑡 𝑏 , 𝐷 𝑡 𝑐 ).

4.4.3 Knowledge-Grounded Reflective Tutoring . To close the coaching loop, SocialCoach delivers reflective, actionable feedback tailored to the learner’s specific needs. This stage aims to foster learners’ deep understanding and transferable skill application. 

Targeted Knowledge Retrieval . Based on the diagnostic assess-ment, SocialCoach retrieves relevant materials based on both tag-based filter and semantic embedding from the structured knowledge corpus, K𝑡 = (K 𝑡 𝑡 , K𝑡 𝑐 ) ⊂ K . For identified performance deficits ,illustrative cases K𝑡 𝑐 ⊆ K 𝑐 are provided to demonstrate skill appli-cation in analogous real-world contexts. Additionally, for acquisi-tion deficits , foundational theories K𝑡 𝑡 ⊆ K 𝑡 are also retrieved to strengthen conceptual understanding. 

Reflective Guidance Generation . Rather than just static feedback 

𝐷 𝑡 and K𝑡 , SocialCoach further adopts Socratic questioning [ 25 ] to foster critical reflection, i.e., 𝐺 𝑡 = LLM guidance (𝑈 𝑡 , 𝐿 𝑡 , 𝐷 𝑡 𝑏 , 𝐷 𝑡 𝑐 , K𝑡 ).For example, it might ask: "Back to the situation of a case, what alternative strategies could you have employed to de-escalate the conflict?" This approach enables a reflective exercise, encouraging learners to analyze their actions and explore alternative strategies. 

5 Experiments 

We conduct a multi-part empirical study of SocialCoach to assess the quality of its knowledge corpus, the judge-rated quality of its SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice 

Table 1: Corpus Statistics and Tag Diversity Type Overall Statistics Semantic Tag Diversity Size Avg. Words Competence Skill Context 

Theory 14,186 150.21 52.84 4.55 -Case 23,521 86.92 54.78 4.69 2.43 Scenario 5,463 372.45 43.51 4.45 2.66 

adaptive scenario scheduling, and the perceived value of its peda-gogically grounded coaching. Due to the page limit, please see more resources like code, data examples, agent prompts, output examples, and so on in Github: https://github.com/GeminiLight/SocialCoach. 

5.1 System Implementation 

5.1.1 Data Collection Method . For the research goal in this study, we construct the social knowledge corpus by curating books from recognized lists and category rankings. First, we identify rele-vant books using category rankings from platforms like Amazon Books’ self-help section 2 (e.g., relationships, emotional intelligence) and BookAuthority.org 3 (e.g., leadership, empathy, social intelli-gence). Then, we gather the available files of these books from the Open Library website 4. After a manual review for relevance and quality, we selected 200 books to ensure a focused and com-prehensive corpus. The final corpus includes many widely cited works such as “Nonviolent Communication: A Language of Life" and “Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ". 

5.1.2 System Implementation Details . SocialCoach supports multiple LLM backends for its agents, including GPT-5 [ 28 ], Qwen3-235B [ 43 ], DeepSeek-R1-0528 [ 8], Gemini-3-Pro, and Qwen3-8B. Concretely, for the corpus construction pipeline, we employ Qwen3-235B as the backend, Chroma as the vector database, and Qwen3-Embedding-8B [ 48 ] as the embedding model. Next, regarding the training of a prescription agent, we adopt the Qwen3-8B as a base LLM and train it with multi-turn agentic RL [ 36 ] supported by ROLL [ 41 ]. These training experiments are conducted on a cluster of 16 NVIDIA H20 GPUs with a learning rate of 1.0 × 10 −6 and a maximum output length of 2048 tokens. We configure the parallel environment manager with a batch size of 64. In simulation envi-ronments, we set the number of representative profiles 𝑛 to 1000 to ensure profile variety and max turns to 10. For reward shaping, we use Qwen3-235B with a temperature of 0 for one-shot estimation and consider the filter penalty 𝜂 as 0.1. Regarding the candidate retrieval module, it combines boolean filtering for pedagogical com-pliance with semantic ranking via Qwen3-Embedding-8B [ 48 ]. If filters yield no results, a progressive relaxation strategy systemat-ically eases constraints to ensure a candidate is always surfaced. Finally, for coaching scaffolding, this service layer supports multiple LLMs and uses GPT-5 by default. 

5.2 Analysis of Knowledge Corpus 

Our automated pipeline produces a corpus of over 40,000 unique knowledge entries, each tagged with multifaceted semantics. To 

> 2https://www.amazon.com/amz-books/store
> 3https://bookauthority.org/categories
> 4https://openlibrary.org

Table 2: Expert Likert Ratings Type Tag Annotation Agreement Content Pedagogical Value Competence Skill Context Soundness Accessibility Pedagogy                   

> Theory 4.78 4.62 -4.08 3.81 3.26 Case 4.68 4.55 3.86 4.06 3.98 3.40 Scenario 4.92 4.82 4.63 4.83 4.41 4.44

assess the quality, diversity, and pedagogical value of this corpus, we conducted the following multi-faceted analysis. 

5.2.1 Overall Corpus Statistics . As shown in Table 1, this cor-pus is composed of 14,186 theories, 23,521 cases, and 5,463 scenarios. We analyze the textual depth of each category by calculating the av-erage word count, revealing that scenarios are considerably longer than theories and cases. This difference reflects their pedagogical roles: scenarios provide detailed immersive practice, while theories and cases offer concise conceptual knowledge and examples. 

5.2.2 Tag Diversity & Distribution . To estimate whether the corpus is well-balanced, we evaluated the diversity of our semantic tags using Shannon Entropy, which measures the uniformity of a distribution. As shown in Table 1, the high entropy scores of each knowledge type suggest that the corpus covers a broad range of social situations rather than being limited to a few contexts. A detailed breakdown of the tag distributions is as follows: 

5.2.3 Expert Likert Ratings . To assess the tag accuracy and pedagogical value, three expert reviewers who are workplace prac-titioners proficient in social skills and emotional intelligence rated a random sample of 150 corpus entries (50 for each type of knowledge) on a 5-point scale from multiple dimensions. The manual validation yielded an average Fleiss’ Kappa of 0.63, indicating moderate-to-substantial agreement across assessments. Results suggest high annotation consistency and pedagogical value within the sampled entries. See Appendix B.2 for detailed analysis. 

5.3 Evaluation on System Quality 

To assess the judge-rated quality of SocialCoach’s core components, we conduct experiments within our learner simulation environment. We first generate a held-out set of 200 synthetic learner profiles for testing, ensuring they are distinct from any profiles used during the RL training. Each profile is initialized with a unique combination of demographics, personality traits, target social skills, and initial proficiency levels to represent a diverse user population. Following existing studies [ 16 , 40 , 45 ], we adopt GPT-5 [ 28 ] as the judge on the 5-point Likert scale assessment to evaluate output quality. 

5.3.1 Visualization of Profile Distribution . We visualize the distribution of representative profile embedding to show their con-sistency and diversity. See Appendix B.3 for details. 

5.3.2 Evaluation on Practice Scheduling . To evaluate our adap-tive practice scheduling, we simulate 10-session learning path-ways for each simulated learner. We compare our RL-finetuned SocialCoach agent against baselines, including a ProfileQuery that regards the user profile as a query for a semantic retrieval method and several NonTuning LLMs that directly generate a query with-out finetuning. We assess the pathway quality across four criteria: Avg. Engagement (relevance to user goals), Avg. Learning Gain Tianfu Wang et al. Dia                

> Att
> Tra
> Spe
> Act
> Ref
> Enc
> Per
> 3.0
> 3.4
> 3.8
> 4.2
> 4.6
> 5.0
> (a) GPT-5
> Dia
> Att
> Tra
> Spe
> Act
> Ref
> Enc
> Per
> 3.0
> 3.4
> 3.8
> 4.2
> 4.6
> 5.0
> (b) Gemini-3-Pro
> Dia
> Att
> Tra
> Spe
> Act
> Ref
> Enc
> Per
> 3.0
> 3.4
> 3.8
> 4.2
> 4.6
> 5.0
> (d) DeepSeek-R1-0528
> Dia
> Att
> Tra
> Spe
> Act
> Ref
> Enc
> Per
> 3.0
> 3.4
> 3.8
> 4.2
> 4.6
> 5.0
> (c) Qwen3-235B
> Methods
> Prompting
> RAG
> SocialCoach
> w/o Diagnosis
> w/o Retrieval
> Dia Diagnosis Att Attribution Tra Traceability Spe Specificity Act Actionability Ref Reflectiveness Enc Encouragement Per Personalization

Figure 5: Evaluation results on tutoring guidance. Table 3: Evaluation results on practice pathway. Method Eng. 1 LG 2 Pers. 3 Prog. 4

ProfileQuery 3.45 3.52 3.61 3.40 NonTuning GPT-5 3.88 3.75 4.02 3.74 NonTuning Gemini-3-Pro 3.95 3.88 4.08 3.78 NonTuning Qwen3-235B 3.92 3.68 3.96 3.67 NonTuning DeepSeek-R1-0528 3.76 3.72 3.92 3.68 NonTuning Qwen3-8B 3.61 3.44 3.78 3.42 

SocialCoach Qwen3-8B 4.38 4.11 4.25 4.05    

> 1Avg. Engagement; 2Avg. Learning Gain; 3Personalization; 4Progression.

(pedagogical value), Personalization (tailoring to user background), and Progression (coherence of the learning sequence on progress). As shown in Table 3, SocialCoach Qwen3-8B receives higher judge ratings across all four evaluation criteria, particularly on Engage-ment and Learning Gain. While powerful zero-shot models like NonTuning GPT-5 and NonTuning Gemini-3-Pro perform reasonably well, the observed gap between them and the finetuned SocialCoach sug-gests a limitation of non-adapted approaches. Even if a strong LLM generates a pedagogically sound prescription, it may fail to retrieve a highly rated practice if that prescription is not well-aligned with the available scenarios in the knowledge corpus. This suggests that practice quality relies not only on an accurate understanding of the learner’s status but also on generating prescriptions that are realis-tically retrievable. This indicates that our training adaptation may improve the agent’s awareness of both the user’s diagnosed needs and the specific contents of the corpus, resulting in better-aligned prescriptions for practice retrieval. 

5.3.3 Evaluation on Pedagogical Tutoring . To evaluate the pedagogical feedback, we use GPT-5 [ 28 ] to simulate a learner’s behavior across 200 practice sessions. We compare SocialCoach against four baselines: (a) Prompting LLM that provides feedback directly, (b) RAG model that retrieves from our corpus, and two ab-lated variants of our system: (c) one without assessment workflow, and (d) another without retrieval module. We adopt eight metrics from detail to whole to comprehensively evaluate the guidance quality: Diagnosis (accuracy of problem identification), Attribu-tion (understanding of root causes), Traceability (faithfulness to the knowledge source), Specificity (relevance to user actions), Ac-tionability (clarity of suggested improvements), Reflectiveness (use of Socratic questioning), Encouragement (supportive and positive tone), and Personalization (tailoring to the user’s profile). As shown in Figure 5, the results show that SocialCoach receives higher scores than the baselines and ablated models across most metrics. Regarding the Diagnosis and Attribution, SocialCoach re-ceives higher ratings on these two metrics compared to baseline and w/o Diagnosis variant. This suggests an important role of the attribution-based assessment workflow. This module is designed to help the system move beyond surface-level feedback by identifying skill gaps and their possible root causes in a fine-grained manner. Additionally, we observe that both retrieval-based methods, such as SocialCoach and RAG, achieve high scores in Traceability. This suggests that anchoring feedback in a verifiable knowledge corpus can improve perceived reliability. Furthermore, SocialCoach also receives higher scores on more integrative metrics, such as Action-ability and Personalization. This supports the value of combining component design with educational domain knowledge. Overall, these results suggest that SocialCoach can deliver personalized, pedagogical guidance within a comprehensive coaching loop under our simulated and judge-rated evaluation setting. 

5.3.4 Alignment with Human Evaluation . To estimate the re-liability of our LLM-based evaluations, we compare them against independent human judgments across key metrics. The alignment of most metrics indicates that the automated assessments are moder-ately correlated with expert ratings, while some subjective metrics remain challenging. See Appendix B.4 for details. 

5.3.5 Case Study of Learning Journey . In addition to our quan-titative analysis and LLM-based evaluations, we further provide case studies in Appendix B.5, which trace a concrete learning jour-ney to illustrate system behavior and perceived pedagogical value. 

5.4 End-to-end User Study 

5.4.1 Practical Product Deployment. We have deployed SocialCoach in our product, EQoach. This application features a mobile-first React frontend and a Python backend. SocialCoach serves as its core engine via algorithmic APIs that power adaptive practice sched-uling, the LLM-driven simulation arena, and the coaching loop. We provide its key interfaces in Appendix C.1. An internal beta of EQoach launched in April 2025, which offers beta testers a gamified environment for social skill learning. 

5.4.2 User Study Analysis. Given the emerging nature of our EQoach product, its user scale is still limited. To collect early user-experience and perceived-usefulness feedback, we conduct a 10-practice user study under strict privacy constraints. We recruit 50 participants (25 university students, 25 early-career professionals; aged 20–30), SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice 

representing key demographics for social skill development. Par-ticipants were instructed to use EQoach for at least 10 practices. At the end of the study period, we administered a post-study ques-tionnaire and conducted semi-structured interviews with them to explore their experiences. Participation was voluntary, and anal-ysis was conducted on aggregated or anonymized feedback. See Appendix C.2 and C.3 for analysis and simulator fidelity validation. 

6 Conclusion 

In this paper, we introduced SocialCoach, an LLM-powered agentic tutoring and practice framework that supports personalized so-cial skill learning. We first constructed a pedagogically grounded, theory-to-practice social knowledge corpus at scale. Then, we op-timized adaptive, goal-aligned scenario scheduling via a prescrip-tion–retrieval–adaptation policy trained with simulation-based RL to personalize practice. Furthermore, we integrate immersive simu-lations with attribution-based proficiency assessment and knowledge-grounded reflective tutoring to address the knowing–doing gap. Finally, we deployed it in EQoach and conducted corpus analyses, simulated evaluations, judge-rated tutoring evaluations, and an early user study. The results suggest promising knowledge quality, pathway personalization, judge-rated engagement, perceived user value, and practical viability. Overall, as a holistic agentic system, SocialCoach provides a practical architecture for personalized and gamified pedagogical platforms for soft skills learning. 

References 

[1] Taylor N Allbright, Julie A Marsh, Kate E Kennedy, Heather J Hough, and Susan McKibben. 2019. Social-emotional learning practices: Insights from outlier schools. Journal of Research in Innovative Teaching & Learning 12, 1 (2019), 35–52. [2] Jonathan Bassen, Bharathan Balaji, Michael Schaarschmidt, Candace Thille, Jay Painter, Dawn Zimmaro, Alex Games, Ethan Fast, and John C. Mitchell. 2020. Reinforcement Learning for the Adaptive Scheduling of Educational Activities. In CHI .[3] Jaime Carbonell and Jade Goldstein. 1998. The use of MMR, diversity-based reranking for reordering documents and producing summaries. In SIGIR .[4] Jiangjie Chen, Xintao Wang, Rui Xu, Siyu Yuan, Yikai Zhang, Wei Shi, Jian Xie, Shuang Li, Ruihan Yang, Tinghui Zhu, et al . 2024. From persona to personaliza-tion: A survey on role-playing language agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.18231 

(2024). [5] Zhendong Chu, Shen Wang, Jian Xie, Tinghui Zhu, Yibo Yan, Jinheng Ye, Aoxiao Zhong, Xuming Hu, Jing Liang, Philip S Yu, et al . 2025. Llm agents for education: Advances and applications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.11733 (2025). [6] Jiwon Chun, Yankun Zhao, Hanlin Chen, and Meng Xia. 2025. PlanGlow: Person-alized Study Planning with an Explainable and Controllable LLM-Driven System. In L@S .[7] Susan A Dean. 2017. Soft skills needed for the 21st century workforce . Walden University. [8] DeepSeek-AI. 2025. DeepSeek-R1-0528 Release. https://api-docs.deepseek.com/ news/news250528. [9] David Dinucu-Jianu, Jakub Macina, Nico Daheim, Ido Hakimi, Iryna Gurevych, and Mrinmaya Sachan. 2025. From Problem-Solving to Teaching Problem-Solving: Aligning LLMs with Pedagogy using Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15607 (2025). [10] Joseph A Durlak. 2015. Handbook of social and emotional learning: Research and practice . Guilford Publications. [11] Julian G Elliott, Steven E Stemler, Robert J Sternberg, Elena L Grigorenko, and Newman Hoffman. 2011. The socially skilled teacher and the development of tacit knowledge. British Educational Research Journal 37, 1 (2011), 83–103. [12] Anna Fang, Hriday Chhabria, Alekhya Maram, and Haiyi Zhu. 2025. Social Simulation for Everyday Self-Care: Design Insights from Leveraging VR, AR, and LLMs for Practicing Stress Relief. In CHI .[13] Tao Ge, Xin Chan, Xiaoyang Wang, Dian Yu, Haitao Mi, and Dong Yu. 2024. Scaling synthetic data creation with 1,000,000,000 personas. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.20094 (2024). [14] Frank M. Gresham. 2015. Disruptive Behavior Disorders: Evidence-Based Practice for Assessment and Intervention . Guilford Publications. [15] Hengnian Gu, Zhiyi Duan, Pan Xie, and Dongdai Zhou. 2024. Modeling balanced explicit and implicit relations with contrastive learning for knowledge concept recommendation in MOOCs. In WWW .[16] Jiawei Gu, Xuhui Jiang, Zhichao Shi, Hexiang Tan, Xuehao Zhai, Chengjin Xu, Wei Li, Yinghan Shen, Shengjie Ma, Honghao Liu, et al . 2024. A survey on llm-as-a-judge. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.15594 (2024). [17] Michael Guevarra, Indronil Bhattacharjee, Srijita Das, Christabel Wayllace, Car-rie Demmans Epp, Matthew E Taylor, and Alan Tay. 2025. An LLM-Guided Tutoring System for Social Skills Training. In AAAI .[18] Sarah Susanna Hoppler, Robin Segerer, and Jana Nikitin. 2022. The six com-ponents of social interactions: Actor, partner, relation, activities, context, and evaluation. Frontiers in Psychology 12 (2022), 743074. [19] Tiancheng Hu, Joachim Baumann, Lorenzo Lupo, Nigel Collier, Dirk Hovy, and Paul Röttger. 2025. Simbench: Benchmarking the ability of large language models to simulate human behaviors. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.17516 (2025). [20] Chris Davis Jaldi, Eleni Ilkou, Noah Schroeder, and Cogan Shimizu. 2025. Ed-ucation in the era of Neurosymbolic AI. Journal of Web Semantics 85 (2025), 100857. [21] Stephanie M Jones and Emily J Doolittle. 2017. Social and emotional learning: Introducing the issue. The future of children 27, 1 (2017), 3–11. [22] Matthew Jörke, Shardul Sapkota, Lyndsea Warkenthien, Niklas Vainio, Paul Schmiedmayer, Emma Brunskill, and James A. Landay. 2025. GPTCoach: Towards LLM-Based Physical Activity Coaching. In CHI .[23] Harold W. Kuhn. 1955. The Hungarian method for the assignment problem. 

Naval Research Logistics Quarterly 2, 1-2 (1955), 83–97. [24] Qingyao Li, Wei Xia, Li’ang Yin, Jiarui Jin, and Yong Yu. 2024. Privileged knowl-edge state distillation for reinforcement learning-based educational path recom-mendation. In KDD .[25] Jiayu Liu, Zhenya Huang, Tong Xiao, Jing Sha, Jinze Wu, Qi Liu, Shijin Wang, and Enhong Chen. 2024. SocraticLM: Exploring socratic personalized teaching with large language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 

37 (2024), 85693–85721. [26] Yujie Luo, Xiangyuan Ru, Kangwei Liu, Lin Yuan, Mengshu Sun, Ningyu Zhang, Lei Liang, Zhiqiang Zhang, Jun Zhou, Lanning Wei, Da Zheng, Haofen Wang, and Huajun Chen. 2025. OneKE: A Dockerized Schema-Guided LLM Agent-based Knowledge Extraction System. In WWW .[27] Setareh Maghsudi, Andrew Lan, Jie Xu, and Mihaela van Der Schaar. 2021. Personalized education in the artificial intelligence era: what to expect next. 

IEEE Signal Processing Magazine 38, 3 (2021), 37–50. [28] OpenAI. 2025. GPT-5 System Card. https://cdn.openai.com/gpt-5-system-card. pdf. Published August 7, 2025. [29] Sarah M Ovink and Brian D Veazey. 2011. More than “getting us through:” A case study in cultural capital enrichment of underrepresented minority under-graduates. Research in higher education 52, 4 (2011), 370–394. [30] Jiahuan Pei, Fanghua Ye, Xin Sun, Wentao Deng, Koen Hindriks, and Junxiao Wang. 2025. Conversational Education at Scale: A Multi-LLM Agent Workflow for Procedural Learning and Pedagogic Quality Assessment. In EMNLP .[31] Erasmo Purificato, Ludovico Boratto, and Ernesto William De Luca. 2024. User modeling and user profiling: A comprehensive survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.09660 (2024). [32] Cheng Qian, Zuxin Liu, Akshara Prabhakar, Jielin Qiu, Zhiwei Liu, Haolin Chen, Shirley Kokane, Heng Ji, Weiran Yao, Shelby Heinecke, et al . 2025. UserRL: Training Interactive User-Centric Agent via Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.19736 (2025). [33] Sajratul Y Rubaiat and Hasan M Jamil. 2025. Context-Aware Scientific Knowledge Extraction on Linked Open Data using Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.17580 (2025). [34] Surbhi Seema Sethi and Kanishk Jain. 2024. AI technologies for social emotional learning: recent research and future directions. Journal of Research in Innovative Teaching & Learning 17, 2 (2024), 213–225. [35] Omar Shaikh, Valentino Emil Chai, Michele Gelfand, Diyi Yang, and Michael S. Bernstein. 2024. Rehearsal: Simulating Conflict to Teach Conflict Resolution. In 

CHI .[36] Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang, Mingchuan Zhang, YK Li, Yang Wu, et al . 2024. Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03300 (2024). [37] Lee S. Shulman. 1998. Theory, practice, and the education of professionals. The Elementary School Journal 98, 5 (1998), 511–526. [38] Ian Steenstra, Farnaz Nouraei, and Timothy W Bickmore. 2025. Scaffolding Empathy: Training Counselors with Simulated Patients and Utterance-level Performance Visualizations. In CHI .[39] Tianlong Wang, Xianfeng Jiao, Yinghao Zhu, Zhongzhi Chen, Yifan He, Xu Chu, Junyi Gao, Yasha Wang, and Liantao Ma. 2025. Adaptive activation steering: A tuning-free llm truthfulness improvement method for diverse hallucinations categories. In WWW .Tianfu Wang et al. 

[40] Tianfu Wang, Yi Zhan, Jianxun Lian, Zhengyu Hu, Nicholas Jing Yuan, Qi Zhang, Xing Xie, and Hui Xiong. 2025. LLM-powered Multi-agent Framework for Goal-oriented Learning in Intelligent Tutoring System. In WWW .[41] Weixun Wang, Shaopan Xiong, Gengru Chen, Wei Gao, Sheng Guo, Yancheng He, Ju Huang, Jiaheng Liu, Zhendong Li, Xiaoyang Li, et al . 2025. Reinforcement Learning Optimization for Large-Scale Learning: An Efficient and User-Friendly Scaling Library. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.06122 (2025). [42] Shirley Wu, Michel Galley, Baolin Peng, Hao Cheng, Gavin Li, Yao Dou, Weixin Cai, James Zou, Jure Leskovec, and Jianfeng Gao. 2025. CollabLLM: From Passive Responders to Active Collaborators. In ICML .[43] An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, et al . 2025. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 (2025). [44] Diyi Yang, Caleb Ziems, William Held, Omar Shaikh, Michael S Bernstein, and John Mitchell. 2024. Social skill training with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.04204 (2024). [45] Haofei Yu, Zhengyang Qi, Yining Zhao, Kolby Nottingham, Keyang Xuan, Bod-hisattwa Prasad Majumder, Hao Zhu, Paul Pu Liang, and Jiaxuan You. 2025. Sotopia-RL: Reward Design for Social Intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.03905 

(2025). [46] Yi Zhan, Qi Liu, Weibo Gao, Zheng Zhang, Tianfu Wang, Shuanghong Shen, Junyu Lu, and Zhenya Huang. 2025. CoderAgent: Simulating Student Behavior for Personalized Programming Learning with Large Language Models. In IJCAI .[47] Xinnong Zhang, Jiayu Lin, Xinyi Mou, Shiyue Yang, Xiawei Liu, Libo Sun, Hanjia Lyu, Yihang Yang, Weihong Qi, Yue Chen, et al . 2025. Socioverse: A world model for social simulation powered by llm agents and a pool of 10 million real-world users. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.10157 (2025). [48] Yanzhao Zhang, Mingxin Li, Dingkun Long, Xin Zhang, Huan Lin, Baosong Yang, Pengjun Xie, An Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Junyang Lin, et al . 2025. Qwen3 Embedding: Advancing Text Embedding and Reranking Through Foundation Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.05176 (2025). [49] Weixiang Zhao, Xingyu Sui, Yulin Hu, Jiahe Guo, Haixiao Liu, Biye Li, Yanyan Zhao, Bing Qin, and Ting Liu. 2025. Teaching Language Models to Evolve with Users: Dynamic Profile Modeling for Personalized Alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15456 (2025). [50] Jialun Zhong, Wei Shen, Yanzeng Li, Songyang Gao, Hua Lu, Yicheng Chen, Yang Zhang, Wei Zhou, Jinjie Gu, and Lei Zou. 2025. A comprehensive survey of reward models: Taxonomy, applications, challenges, and future. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.12328 (2025). [51] Xuhui Zhou, Hao Zhu, Leena Mathur, Ruohong Zhang, Haofei Yu, Zhengyang Qi, Louis-Philippe Morency, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Graham Neubig, et al . 2024. SOTOPIA: Interactive Evaluation for Social Intelligence in Language Agents. In 

ICLR .

A Details of Framework Design A.1 Knowledge Categorization Details 

To ensure our knowledge corpus is pedagogically sound and eas-ily retrievable, we structure it using a multifaceted categorization method. Each piece of knowledge is tagged along three key dimen-sions: its associated CASEL competency, the specific social skill it addresses, and the scenario type in which it applies. 

A.1.1 Associated Social Competencies . In this work, we adopt the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL) framework [ 10 ], which is recognized as one of the most popular SEL frameworks by the Explore SEL project 5 of Harvard Graduate School of Education. CASEL provides a widely acknowl-edged foundation for understanding social-emotional learning and identifies five core competencies: Self-Awareness, Self-Management, Social Awareness, Relationship Skills, and Responsible Decision-Making. These competencies represent the broad, overarching abil-ities crucial for navigating social interactions effectively. 

A.1.2 Associated Social Skills . To bridge the gap between CASEL’s abstract competencies and practical application, the CASEL office further categorizes knowledge by associated Social Skills. These are defined as granular, observable, and teachable behaviors—such 

> 5

http://exploresel.gse.harvard.edu/compare-domains/ 

Listing 1: An example of a structured prescription.  

> 1

{ 

> 2

" prescription ": { 

> 3

" query ": " Navigating a technical disagreement with asenior researcher during a project meeting to find a compromise ." ,  

> 4

" filters ": { 

> 5

" associated_competencies ": { 

> 6

" values ": [" Relationship Skills " , " Responsible Decision - Making "],  

> 7

" logic ": " OR "  

> 8

},  

> 9

" social_skills ": { 

> 10

" values ": [" Conflict Resolution " , " Teamwork "],  

> 11

" logic ": " AND "  

> 12

},  

> 13

" situational_contexts ": { 

> 14

" values ": [" Workplace " , " Office "],  

> 15

" logic ": " OR "  

> 16

} 

> 17

} 

> 18

} 

> 19

}

as specific communication techniques or actions—that individuals can practice to demonstrate proficiency within the broader CASEL domains. Our system tags content with these fine-grained skills to enable the precise targeting of learning objectives and assessment criteria. The relationship between CASEL competencies and their corresponding social skills is detailed in Table 4. 

A.1.3 Scenario Contextual Types . Since the usefulness of a so-cial skill often depends on its context, we also categorize scenarios by Scenario Type. This categorization is hierarchical to provide nuanced classification. First, we assign a high-level category de-scribing the general environment where the interaction occurs (e.g., Workplace, Family). Next, we refine this with a more detailed sub-category (e.g., Office, Parent-child). This hierarchical approach, detailed in Table 5, helps learners practice skills in contexts directly relevant to their personal and professional lives, with the goal of supporting transfer across contexts. 

A.2 Prescription Schema and Retrievability 

We provide a formal description of the prescription action schema and the retrievability mechanism for scenario practices. 

A.2.1 Action Schema Components. The action 𝑎 𝑡 generated by the prescription agent is formalized as a structured scenario require-ment designed to emulate the pedagogical reasoning of a human coach. This requirement comprises a natural language query de-scribing the core learning objective alongside a filter set that lever-ages boolean logic to navigate the multi-faceted semantic organiza-tion. Specifically, the system maintains a default AND operation across the distinct dimensions of associated competencies, social skills, and situational contexts to ensure that retrieved practices satisfy all necessary pedagogical and environmental constraints simultaneously. Within specific dimensions, the agent’s output schema supports both AND and OR operations to allow for either precise targeting or flexible grouping of related concepts. For exam-ple, as illustrated in Listing 1, the agent may require a strict AND match for “Conflict Resolution” and “Teamwork” to ensure both SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice 

Table 4: The list of social skills grouped by their main related competencies under the CASEL framework. Competencies Social Skills 

Self-Awareness Identifying emotions Social and cultural identity Recognizing strengths Growth mindset Self-efficacy Examining bias Sense of purpose Self-Management Emotion regulation Impulse control Stress management Self-discipline and motivation Perseverance Goal-setting Organizational skills Initiative and Agency Social Awareness Perspective-taking Empathy and compassion Expressing gratitude Appreciating diversity Identifying social norms and demands Sense of belonging Relationship Skills Communication Cultural competence Building relationships Teamwork and working cooperatively Resolving conflicts Helping/Seeking help Leadership Standing up for the rights of others Responsible Decision-Making Demonstrating curiosity and open-mindedness Identifying and solving problems Analyzing situations and consequences Ethical responsibility Reflecting on one’s role to promote individ-ual and collective well-being 

skills are practiced, while allowing an OR match for “Workplace” or “Office” contexts to maintain high retrievability. 

A.2.2 Retrievability Guarantee. Strict filtering criteria can lead to empty retrieval results, potentially disrupting the pedagogical flow. To ensure a robust retrievability guarantee, the candidate retrieval module employs a progressive relaxation strategy. If initial boolean filters yield no matches, the system systematically eases 

Table 5: 7 scenario contextual categories detailed in 26 types. Contextual Category Detailed Contextual Types 

Workplace Office, meetings, job interviews, professional collaboration Family Parent-child, siblings, home interactions, Spouse Friendship Informal, emotional bonding, casual talk Romantic Dating, partner conflicts, affection sharing Education Classroom, peer discussion, teacher-student roles Public/Stranger Store, transport, unknown people, Park, Courtroom Party/Social Events, birthdays, wine parties, social mingling Family 31% 

Workplace 27% 

> Public/Stranger 13%
> Friendship 8%
> Education 8%

Romantic 8% 

> Party/Social 5%

Parent-child 44% 

> home interactions 25%

Spouse 21% 

> siblings 8%
> emotional bonding 2%
> Informal 0.0894%
> casual talk 0.0447%
> professional collaboration 38%

Office 36% 

meetings 23% 

> job interviews 2%
> Store 0.2%
> Informal 0.1%
> Events 0.05%
> unknown people 23%
> Courtroom 21%
> Store 18%
> transport 15%
> Events 13%
> Park 9%
> social mingling 0.216%
> casual talk 0.216%
> Office 0.216%
> Informal 0.108%
> meetings 0.108%
> home interactions 0.108%

Informal 53% 

> emotional bonding 36%
> casual talk 11%
> peer discussion 1%
> home interactions 0.165%
> Classroom 56%
> teacher-student roles 30%
> peer discussion 12%
> meetings 1%
> Events 1%
> professional collaboration 0.333%
> Informal 0.167%
> home interactions 0.167%
> partner conflicts 65%
> Dating 23%
> affection sharing 11%
> Spouse 1%
> emotional bonding 0.358%

social mingling 56% 

> Events 31%
> wine parties 8%
> birthdays 3%
> casual talk 1%
> Informal 0.291%

Figure 6: Distribution of scenario contextual types. 

categorical constraints by transitioning from strict AND to OR logic within categories or progressively removing filter dimensions until a suitable candidate is identified. This ensures that even when specific metadata matches are scarce, a traceable and pedagogically relevant practice candidate is always surfaced. 

B Experimental Results and Analysis B.1 Visualization on Corpus Distribution 

Social Competency Co-occurrence . The heatmap in Figure 7 reveals logical correlations between competencies. We observe two distinct clusters with strong positive correlations (scores > 0.3): one linking Social Awareness with Relationship Skills, and another connect-ing Self-Awareness, Self-Management, and Responsible Decision-Making. This indicates that our corpus effectively captures the synergistic nature of social skills, where understanding others is tied to interaction, and personal insight is linked to self-regulation and thoughtful action. 

Social Skill Frequency . Figure 8 displays the frequency of the most common social skills within our corpus. Foundational abilities such as communication, empathy and compassion, and Perspective-taking are the most prevalent. 

Scenario Context Distribution . The distribution of scenario con-texts, visualized in Figure 6, is broadly balanced across key life domains. The most prominent categories are Family (31%) and Tianfu Wang et al. SoA                      

> SM
> SA
> RS
> RDM
> SoA
> SM
> SA
> RS
> RDM
> 1.00 0.18 0.15 0.47 0.35
> 0.18 1.00 0.33 0.17 0.29
> 0.15 0.33 1.00 0.15 0.23
> 0.47 0.17 0.15 1.00 0.28
> 0.35 0.29 0.23 0.28 1.00 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> 1.0
> Competency Labels
> SoA: Social Awareness
> SA: Self-Awareness
> RDM: Responsible Decision-Making
> SM: Self-Management
> RS: Relationship Skills

Figure 7: Co-occurrence heatmap of social competencies 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 

> Frequency Count
> Communication
> Empathy and compassion
> Perspective-taking
> Emotion regulation
> Building relationships
> Self-discipline and motivation
> Self-efficacy
> Resolving conflicts
> Goal-setting
> Impulse control

Figure 8: Top 10 social skills by frequency. 

Workplace (27%), with coverage of other areas like public and edu-cational settings. This balance suggests the corpus provides con-textually relevant scenarios for a range of real-world interpersonal challenges. 

B.2 Expert Likert Ratings of Corpus 

Tag Annotation Consistency . To assess the reliability of the auto-mated tagging process, we measure the label agreement of human experts on these automated tags. As shown in Table 2, the ex-pert evaluations show consistently high agreement scores across three dimensions. The agreement on scenarios achieves the highest ratings, which reflects the system’s exceptional ability to tag struc-tured, context-rich content accurately. Theories and cases, while foundational, scored slightly lower for context (3.98 and 3.86) due to their more abstract nature. These great results validate the relia-bility of the tagging system in categorizing actionable and relevant information, ensuring effective organization. 30 20 10 0 10 20 30  

> 30
> 20
> 10
> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> Training Testing

Figure 9: Representative learner profile distribution. 

Content Pedagogical Value . To assess the content quality, these experts rate the knowledge content from the following aspects: Soundness (assesses the credibility and authenticity), Accessibility (assesses how clear the content is for a typical learner), and Peda-gogy (assesses the potential usefulness for achieving a meaningful learning outcome). As shown in Table 2, the results highlight the high pedagogical quality of the corpus across three dimensions. While scenario ratings consistently achieved the highest, the foun-dational theory scores are slightly lower. This indicates room for improvement in making abstract principles more engaging and in-structionally impactful. Overall, our corpus delivers credible, clear, and effective content for social skill development, with scenarios standing out as particularly valuable for experiential learning. 

B.3 Visualization on Profile Distribution 

We visualize the distribution of representative learner profile embed-dings using t-SNE, shown in Figure 9, The alignment between train-ing and testing clusters suggests that the construction method effec-tively captures entire and consistent patterns across both datasets. Both clustering patterns highlight that both training and testing profiles reflect diverse learning needs and preferences, which is critical for real-world persona simulation. 

B.4 Alignment with Human Evaluation 

To validate our automatic evaluation, we measured the Pearson correlation between our LLM judge and ratings from three human experts on 50 sample outputs. As shown in Table 6, the LLM judge shows moderate alignment with human ratings on several crite-ria. Significant positive correlations for metrics like Traceability, Learning Gain, Diagnosis, and Actionability suggest that it can serve as a useful proxy for assessing factual grounding, educational value, and analytical depth. Conversely, the alignment is weaker for subjective metrics. The weak correlations for Progression and other nuanced aspects suggest LLMs struggle to fully capture the subtleties of pedagogical flow and user experience, which often depend on subjective human judgment. SocialCoach: Personalized Social Skill Learning with RL-based Agentic Tutoring and Practice 

Table 6: Evaluation correlation between Human and LLM. Category Metric Correlation p-value 

Learning Path Learning Gain 0.51 p < 0.01 Engagement 0.37 p < 0.05 Personalization 0.48 p < 0.01 Progression 0.42 p < 0.05 Tutoring Guidance Diagnosis 0.48 p < 0.01 Attribution 0.39 p < 0.01 Traceability 0.52 p < 0.01 Specificity 0.21 p > 0.05 Actionability 0.45 p < 0.01 Reflectiveness 0.36 p < 0.05 Encouragement 0.34 p < 0.05 Personalization 0.41 p < 0.01 Perscription Practice Simulation Guidance Learner              

> Persona
> A PhD student
> Junior AI
> Research Intern
> Target Skills
> Teamwork
> Conflict Resolution
> Turn 1
> Alex: “Hey, Ben, …”
> Ben: “I hear you, ..”
> Turn 2
> Alex: “I know the …”
> Ben: “It's not just ...”
> Turn n
> Title
> The Research Debate
> Character
> Alex, Ben [learner]
> Background
> A team plans to dev…
> …
> …
> ……
> Query
> Navigating technical
> disagreements with …
> Filters
> Skills: [resolving conflicts,
> …], OR
> Competencies: [self -
> management, …], AND
> Overall Feedback
> Hi Alex, this was a
> very successful
> Key Strengths
> […]
> Areas for Improvement
> […]

Figure 10: An illustrative learning journey case. 

B.5 Case Study of Learning Journey 

We illustrate a case study in Figure 10, featuring a learner whose persona is a junior AI research intern. This learner, while technically proficient, struggles with navigating professional disagreements and seeks to improve Teamwork and Conflict Resolution skills. Based on this profile, the prescription agent generates a targeted query for a scenario about "navigating technical disagreements with peers," using filters to find content tagged with the Relationship Skills and Responsible Decision-Making competencies. The system retrieves a highly relevant scenario from the corpus titled "The Research Debate." In this practice, two researchers must resolve a conflict over choosing between a high-risk, innovative solution and a safer, established one under a tight deadline. Then, the adaptation agent assigns the learner the role of "Alex," the character advocating for the more ambitious, innovative approach. In the simulation, the learner (as Alex) moves from defending his position to resolving the conflict. After validating his colleague’s concerns about the project timeline, he proposes a concrete compromise: a "two-day spike" to test the new solution without risking the schedule. They reached a consensus. Upon completion, the system provides a detailed guidance report. The feedback praises the learner’s effective use of validation and integrative negotiation to reach a win-win outcome. It also identifies an area for growth: asking clarifying questions earlier to bypass the initial defensive exchange. Finally, the report poses reflective questions to help the learner consider how to establish shared goals. This process forms a complete learning loop. 

C User Study via Deployed Product C.1 Description of Product Interfaces 

We deployed SocialCoach in our product, EQoach, and its key in-terfaces are presented in Figure 11. After onboarding for initial profiling, the user journey begins in the practice arena, where learners are presented with a variety of scenarios like "Manag-ing Tensions in a Meeting". SocialCoach’s adaptive module dy-namically schedules these scenarios to match the user’s specific learning needs. Upon selecting a practice, the learner is briefed on the scenario’s background, the characters involved (e.g., "Sam" and "Anna"), and the social objectives they need to achieve. The learner then enters an immersive simulation, engaging in a goal-driven conversation with LLM-powered agents who respond dy-namically to their actions. This interactive dialogue serves as the basis for the subsequent attribution-driven proficiency assessment and knowledge-grounded reflective tutoring. The gamified design of EQoach illustrates SocialCoach’s ability to deliver an engaging learning experience that integrates adaptive practice with a com-plete pedagogical coaching loop. 

C.2 Analysis of User Study 

Results are shown in Figure 12; we summarize the main patterns below. Reported interview excerpts were anonymized and lightly edited for readability without changing their meaning. 

Adaptive and Targeted Scheduling. Participants highly val-ued the system’s ability to align practice with individual needs. 

Pedagogical Alignment was rated at 4.66 ± 0.55, suggesting that users perceived the system as matching social competencies to personal growth goals. Curriculum Fluidity followed at 4.38 ± 0.82, with users noting that the adaptive pathways provided a logical progression through increasingly complex social challenges. One participant noted, “The clear guidance made it easier to navigate addressing complex tasks and achieve goals.” 

Immersive Practice and Realism. Participants perceived the simulation environment as realistic. Agent Realism received a high rating of 4.40 ± 0.66, highlighting the perceived consistency of the AI agents’ personas and their natural responses. Situational Fidelity 

was rated at 4.32 ± 0.73, indicating that users felt the scenarios captured pressures similar to real-world social environments. As one participant stated, “The interactions felt surprisingly real; I felt the same level of social pressure as I would in a physical workplace conflict.” 

Diagnostic and Reflective Guidance. The reflective tutoring components achieved the highest marks in the study. Reflective Depth stood out with a rating of 4.88 ± 0.58, suggesting that users found Socratic questioning useful for analyzing their strategies. 

Diagnostic Accuracy also scored high at 4.46 ± 0.67, suggesting that users perceived the diagnostic feedback as meaningful. “The feedback helped me discover the ’why’ behind my behavior,” a participant observed. 

Perceived Learning Value. Participants reported perceived growth in their social-emotional competence. Skill Transferability 

was rated at 4.56 ± 0.67, with users expressing confidence in ap-plying practiced strategies to their professional lives. Engagement Retention also received a 4.48 ± 0.75, suggesting that the gamified loop helped maintain user motivation. One final interview revealed, Tianfu Wang et al. 

Figure 11: Several interfaces of our product, EQoach. Pedagogical Alignment 4.66 ± 0.55 Curriculum Fluidity 4.38 ± 0.82                       

> Situational Fidelity 4.32 ± 0.73 Agent Realism 4.40 ± 0.66
> Diagnostic Accuracy 4.46 ± 0.67 Reflective Depth 4.76 ± 0.51
> 020 40 60 80 100
> Skill Transferability 4.56 ± 0.67
> 020 40 60 80 100
> Engagement Retention 4.48 ± 0.75
> Strongly Disagree Disagree Neutral Agree Strongly Agree
> Adaptive Scheduling ————————————————————————————————————————————— Immersive Practice ————————————————————————————————————————————— Reflective Tutoring ————————————————————————————————————————————— Overall Impact

Figure 12: Questionnaire results from 50 participants. 

“EQoach transformed my understanding of social intelligence into actionable skills I can use every day.” 

C.3 Validation of Simulator Fidelity 

To evaluate the reliability of our simulation environment, we con-ducted a correlation study comparing the one-shot reward estima-tion generated by GPT-5 [ 28 ] against independent human assess-ments. During the user study, learners provided the Engagement 

score from their own perspective, while human experts rated Learn-ing Gain from a pedagogical coaching perspective, using the same 1–5 Likert scale as the simulator. We collected 100 samples, and the results revealed significant positive correlations between the simu-lator’s rewards and expert judgments. Specifically, Learning Gain 

achieved a Pearson correlation of 0.42 (𝑝 < 0.01 ), while Engagement 

reached 0.37 (𝑝 < 0.05 ). These results suggest that the automated reward signal captures part of the underlying pedagogical value and user interest. This alignment indicates that one-shot estimation can serve as a useful but imperfect proxy for optimizing the RL policy toward meaningful educational outcomes. 

D Further Discussion D.1 Licensing and Legal Compliance 

To address compliance and reproducibility concerns, we adopt a non-consumptive research framework for academic purposes in this work. The knowledge corpus is constructed by extracting structural pedagogical patterns from 200 high-quality books accessed via the Open Library. Rather than reproducing copyrighted expressive content, our pipeline transforms source material into structured entities, i.e., theories ( 𝐾 𝑡 ), cases ( 𝐾 𝑐 ), and scenarios ( 𝐾 𝑠 ), that are used for downstream analysis and tutoring. We do not release source texts or verbatim copyrighted passages as part of the corpus.