Title: On the Shoulders of Giants: Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.07363v1

Published Time: Mon, 08 Jun 2026 01:01:23 GMT

Number of Pages: 22

Markdown Content:
# On the Shoulders of Giants: Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 

Xiaoting Zhang 1,2, Zhipeng Gao 1,2⋆, Yiran Lv 1,2, Xing Hu 1,2, Feifei Niu 3, and Xin Xia 1,2⋆ 

> 1

Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China  

> 2

Hangzhou High-Tech Zone (Binjiang) Institute of Blockchain and Data Security, Hangzhou, China  

> 3

University of Ottawa, Canada 

{xiaotingzhang,zhipeng.gao,xinghu}@zju.edu.cn yiranlv7@gmail.com feifeiniu96@gmail.com xin.xia@acm.org 

Abstract. High-quality smart contract auditing datasets are crucial for evaluating security tools and advancing smart contract security research. Two major limitations of existing datasets are the manual-induced scala-bility bottleneck and the deficiency in data granularity and diversity. To address these limitations, we propose GiAnt (GPT-ass isted Auditing Dataset Co nstruction), an automated framework designed to curate smart contract auditing datasets by distilling vulnerability insights from real-world auditing reports. GiAnt employs a divide-and-conquer strategy coupled with the Chain-of-Thought technique to extract structured vul-nerability information from Code4rena reports, followed by an LLM-as-a-judge mechanism to perform rigorous quality assurance. To evaluate 

GiAnt ’s effectiveness, we run it on 388 real-world audit reports and generate the GiAnt Corpus comprising 7,711 vulnerability findings across five severity levels. Manual assessment of the dataset demonstrates exceptional reliability in information extraction, achieving a mean qual-ity score of 4.76 ± 0.37 (out of 5) with inter-rater agreement κ of 0.88. We further validate the practicality of our dataset by benchmarking 4 state-of-the-art LLMs on vulnerability detection, code summarization, mitigation recommendation, and automated gas optimization tasks, to establish performance baselines, thereby providing a valuable data foun-dation for future research in automated smart contract auditing. 

Keywords: Smart Contract Auditing Dataset · LLM · Blockchain. 

## 1 Introduction 

In recent years, the Ethereum blockchain and smart contract technology has accelerated the explosive growth of Decentralized Finance (DeFi), fundamentally revolutionizing traditional paradigms of digital asset management and financial  

> ⋆

Corresponding author.  

> arXiv:2606.07363v1 [cs.CR] 5 Jun 2026 2X. Zhang et al.

transactions [53]. As tens of billions of dollars in Total Value Locked (TVL) pour into the DeFi ecosystem, smart contracts bearing immense economic value have inevitably become prime targets for malicious attackers, leading to frequent security incidents and staggering financial losses [12, 43, 18, 32, 16]. According to recent industry security analyses, the decentralized ecosystem suffered 149 documented major security incidents in 2024 alone, culminating in approximately $1.42 billion in direct economic losses [35]. Alarmingly, while the overall frequency of incidents slightly decreased to 135 in 2025, the financial devastation surged to an unprecedented $3.67 billion [34]. This drastic esca-lation in financial impact highlights a significant evolution in attack vectors: malicious attackers have largely shifted away from exploiting superficial syn-tax errors toward weaponizing complex, high-level security threats. Specifically, sophisticated exploit patterns such as Access Control Vulnerabilities, Business Logic Flaws, Price Oracle Manipulation, and Flash Loan Attacks have estab-lished profound dominance, currently occupying the highest ranks in authorita-tive industry benchmarks like the latest OWASP Smart Contract Top 10 [31]. By stealthily exploiting these intricate logical flaws, attackers can bypass exist-ing defenses to execute devastating exploits[37]. Therefore, conducting in-depth research targeting these complex business logic vulnerabilities has become an urgent necessity for securing the modern smart contract ecosystem. To counter these threats, numerous existing studies have focused on detect-ing and mitigating specific, traditional types of vulnerability (e.g., reentrancy 

and integer overflows [28, 13, 6]), leading to the development of various auto-mated analysis tools [15, 38, 17, 23, 5, 20]. However, real-world smart con-tracts are plagued by complicated business logic vulnerabilities that remain largely unable to be discovered by these conventional meth-ods [51, 33]. Thus, the identification of such intricate flaws remains heavily re-liant on manual code audits conducted by premier security firms (e.g., Open-Zeppelin and Trail of Bits), which is time-consuming and labor-intensive. In recent years, the rapid evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT [3], Qwen [4], and DeepSeek [24], has redefined the landscape of au-tomated software engineering [45, 44, 29, 30, 9–11, 48, 46, 39]. By leveraging large-scale pre-training, these models exhibit exceptional proficiency in code compre-hension and logical reasoning [27]. Specifically, they can capture intricate se-mantic patterns and functional dependencies by modeling program contexts. Consequently, LLMs offer a promising, cost-effective solution for tackling com-plex smart contract vulnerabilities. Despite this potential, the field still lacks a comprehensive, multi-tasking dataset that integrates fine-grained vulnerabil-ity insights to drive subsequent research in automated smart contract audit-ing. Existing real-world smart contract datasets suffer from two critical limi-tations: 1 Scalability challenge. Manually curating datasets is inherently labor-intensive, making it difficult to scale or evolve alongside the rapid growth of smart contracts. For example, DAppScan [52] required 22 participants and 44 person-months to analyze only 1,199 audit reports. This heavy reliance on human effort poses a significant barrier to maintaining a large-scale, up-to-date Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 3

corpus. 2 Limited data granularity and diversity. Existing benchmarks, such as SmartBugs-CURATED [14], predominantly focus on tool-detectable vul-nerabilities (e.g., Reentrancy) and often rely on simple, heuristic-based labeling (e.g., ScrawlD [47]) rather than expert insights. Hence, they provide only coarse-grained labels, lacking essential auditing dimensions, such as risk severity, impact analysis, and mitigation strategies. To address these key limitations, we present GiAnt (GPT-ass isted Auditing Dataset Co nstruction), an automated framework for constructing comprehen-sive and high-quality smart contract auditing datasets. GiAnt implements an LLM-driven pipeline to automatically extract vulnerability information from real-world audit reports disclosed by Code4rena, significantly reducing the man-ual effort required for dataset construction. While various platforms provide smart contract audit reports, Code4rena [8] stands out by explicitly offering fine-grained and diverse data that covers the entire auditing lifecycle, includ-ing risk severity, impact analysis, mitigation strategies, and gas optimizations. Therefore, we crawled all publicly disclosed audit reports from the Code4rena platform as raw data. To effectively extract information from extensive audit reports, GiAnt adopts a divide-and-conquer strategy. It first leverages the re-ports’ inherent hierarchical structure for segmentation, subsequently conducting fine-grained information distillation on each individual chunk via In-Context Learning (ICL) and Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting. This design harnesses the powerful understanding capabilities of LLMs to extract multi-dimensional auditing artifacts—such as vulnerability descriptions, impact assessments, and mitigation strategies—in a highly scalable manner. Furthermore, to mitigate the risks of hallucinations and ensure data integrity, GiAnt incorporates a quality assurance protocol. By employing an LLM-as-a-Judge framework, it systemati-cally validates the extracted data across dimensions of correctness, completeness, and consistency, thereby establishing a robust and trustworthy corpus (i.e., Gi-Ant Corpus ) for downstream security research. The GiAnt Corpus ultimately comprises 7,711 vulnerability findings across five severity levels (i.e., High Risk, Medium Risk, Low Risk, Non-Critical, and Gas Optimization ). The manual eval-uation results show that GiAnt exhibits exceptional reliability in information extraction, achieving a mean quality score of 4.76 ± 0.37 (out of 5). Moreover, to validate the practicality of our dataset, we benchmark four state-of-the-art LLMs on vulnerability detection, code summarization, mitigation recommenda-tion, and automated gas optimization tasks, and establish performance baselines. In summary, this paper makes the following contributions: 

• We propose an LLM-driven framework, named GiAnt , designed to auto-matically construct smart contract auditing datasets by extracting vulnera-bility information from real-world audit reports. 

• We construct the GiAnt Corpus comprising 7,711 detailed vulnerabil-ity findings across five severity levels, providing an extensive and finely-categorized corpus for smart contract security research. To the best of our knowledge, this is the most comprehensive dataset to date, providing the broadest support for diverse automated smart contract auditing tasks. 4 X. Zhang et al. 

• We establish performance baselines for four state-of-the-art LLMs across four tasks (i.e., detection, summarization, remediation, and optimization), demonstrating the dataset’s versatility in empowering the full-lifecycle re-search of automated smart contract auditing. 

• We release GiAnt and the curated GiAnt Corpus [2], in order to facilitate other researchers to replicate our study and verify their own ideas. 

## 2 Background and Motivation 

2.1 Smart Contract Audit Reports 

Smart contract auditing is a rigorous security assessment process designed to identify vulnerabilities prior to deployment, typically culminating in detailed re-ports that document attack vectors, impacts, and recommended mitigations [19]. Traditional audits primarily rely on automated static analysis tools or private engagements with specialized security firms. However, static tools often suffer from high false positive rates and struggle with complex business logic, while private audits are limited by the perspectives of a few individuals. This has catalyzed the emergence of crowdsourced audit platforms, notably Code4rena (C4), which leverage a “competitive auditing” model. C4 is a smart contract auditing platform that has facilitated more than 450 codebase audits and the discovery of thousands of unique vulnerabilities in code from leading crypto projects. This platform runs competitions in which auditors compete for re-wards from a prize pool by reviewing the target codebase to identify and report vulnerabilities. In this paradigm, global elite security researchers (referred to as Wardens) compete for lucrative bounties, strongly incentivizing them to by-pass easily machine-detectable bugs and uncover highly complex business logic and economic model flaws. Following a rigorous multi-party validation process by independent judges, Code4rena finally compiles and publishes highly pro-fessional and publicly accessible reports that document discovered vulnerabili-ties alongside their severity classifications and recommended mitigations. Unlike traditional reports that often provide limited descriptions, these crowdsourced reports offer unprecedented contextual richness, including detailed impact anal-ysis, executable Proof-of-Concepts (PoCs), and verified sponsor mitigations. These unique characteristics make Code4rena audit reports the ideal, high-fidelity data source for constructing datasets tailored to evaluate and fine-tune the deep reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models. 

2.2 LLMs for Automated Dataset Construction 

Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently demonstrated remarkable capabil-ities across a wide spectrum of software engineering tasks [45, 26, 36], particularly in complex code comprehension, logical reasoning, and unstructured text pro-cessing. By leveraging extensive pre-training on vast corpora of code and natural Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 5

language, modern LLMs can deeply understand programming semantics and in-tricate vulnerability patterns, making them highly promising candidates for au-tomating the extraction and structuring of data from technical documents [25]. Currently, constructing large-scale, high-quality smart contract vulnerability datasets relies heavily on manual curation by human experts, an approach that is prohibitively labor-intensive, time-consuming, and highly susceptible to anno-tation errors [7]. LLMs can fundamentally overcome these limitations by rapidly parsing massive volumes of audit data, automatically extracting critical vulner-ability components, and standardizing information at scale. This unprecedented efficiency and scalability strongly motivate us to leverage LLMs to develop an ad-vanced, high-fidelity automated construction paradigm for smart contract audit datasets. Nevertheless, directly deploying LLMs to extract precise vulnerability information from real-world audit reports introduces substantial technical chal-lenges. These reports, typically formatted as lengthy, inconsistently structured Markdown or PDF documents, intertwine natural language descriptions with complex code snippets, execution traces, and mitigation strategies. Therefore, the inherent susceptibility of LLMs to “lost in the middle” effects and proba-bilistic hallucinations [7] in such heterogeneous contexts necessitates a rigorous, verifiable pipeline with alignment mechanisms to ensure high data fidelity. 

## 3 Framework 

To construct high-quality, scalable, and evolvable smart contract auditing datasets, we present GiAnt , an automated framework that leverages LLMs to distill vul-nerability insights from real-world audit reports. 

3.1 Overview 

The workflow of GiAnt is outlined in Fig. 1, which consists of three phases. First, the Structured Data Generation phase acquires audit reports from Code4rena and extracts essential vulnerability information to construct a pre-liminary dataset. Second, the Iterative Semantic Refinement phase conducts rigorous quality assurance and self-correction on the preliminary dataset to pro-duce a semantically optimized version. Finally, the Code Mapping & Scor-ing Oracle phase further enhances the code snippets by retrieving source-level contexts and validates these enhancements through strict alignment scoring, ul-timately yielding the final High-quality Smart Contract Auditing Dataset. 

3.2 Phase 1: Structured Data Generation 

To transform heterogeneous audit reports and source code into a preliminary dataset, this phase involves data acquisition and information extraction. 

(a) Data Acquisition. We started our pipeline by crawling publicly disclosed audit reports from the Code4rena [8] platform published from 2021 to 2025. Objectively, these reports exist in different formats, comprising both Markdown 6 X. Zhang et al. Structured Data Generation 

(a). Data Acquisition 

Raw Data 

> Audit Reports
> Smart
> Contract
> Code Repos

(b). Information Extraction 

Hierarchical Parser  

> High Risk Medium Risk
> Low Risk
> Gas Optimization
> Non -Critical

Chunks 

Context -

Augmented 

Semantic 

Extraction 

> {
> "id": "H -01",
> "category": " high_risk ",
> "title": "[H -01] xx",
> "description": xx,
> "code": "function xx",
> "url ": xx,
> "poc ": xx,
> "impact": xxx,
> "mitigation": xxx
> }

Integrity Validator 

Iterative Semantic Refinement 

Rule -based Logical 

Consistency Validator 

> QA
> Report

Source -Tracing 

Knowledge Recovery 

Hallucination Risk Auditor 

Code Mapping & Scoring Oracle 

LLM -based Recursive 

Quality Judge        

> Accuracy
> Completeness
> No Summarization
> Issue Detecte d
> Feedback -based Judgement
> -Repair Guidelines
> -Detailed Critique
> -Max 3round s
> Cognitive
> Thinking
> Knowledge
> Rescuer
> Rejection
> Histor y
> LLM
> Judge
> Verified Data
> Verify
> Context Rescue (md/ Github )

Dual -path Mappin g

Precise 

Mapping 

LLM 

Inference    

> Logic: Parse Github #Line
> -> Local File Retrieval
> Logic: Analyze context
> -> Infer filename
> -> Global Repo Search

LLM -based 

Alignment 

Discriminator  

> Code
> Description
> Impact Alignment
> Scor e

High -quality Smart Contract 

Security Dataset 

Fig. 1: Overview of GiAnt framework. and PDF files. Moreover, we clone all corresponding Smart Contract Code Repos that fall within the scope of each audit. Since our construction requires both vulnerability information and the corresponding source code, we filter out audit reports where the source code is not publicly accessible. The remaining reports and their corresponding repositories constitute our Raw Data corpus, which ultimately encompasses 340 distinct projects for further analysis. 

(b) Information Extraction. To process this Raw Data corpus, we first em-ploy PyMuPDF [1, 7] to convert all PDF reports into a standardized Markdown format, ensuring structural uniformity for downstream extraction. Recognizing the inherent hierarchical organization of Code4rena reports—where vulnerabili-ties are systematically grouped by severity—we implement a regex-based hierar-chical parser to segment the documents into semantic Chunks (e.g., High Risk Findings, Medium Risk Findings, Low Risk Findings, Non-Critical Findings, and Gas Optimizations ). Within each chunk , the parser further isolates individ-ual vulnerabilities by matching finding titles, extracting fundamental metadata (such as the id and its associated issue url ) and aggregating the remaining text into a local_content block. To achieve fine-grained extraction, we subse-quently deploy an LLM-based Context-Augmented Semantic Extraction 

module that leverages each local_content as its primary input. Crucially, we enrich this prompt with external discussions fetched from GitHub issues using the previously extracted url . Guided by meticulously crafted prompts, the LLM parses this augmented context to generate a standardized JSON schema, cap-turing multi-dimensional details including the Vulnerable Code , PoC , Impact ,and Mitigation strategies. Finally, to guarantee data robustness, the generated JSON records are immediately routed to an Integrity Validator , which in-Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 7

spects the output for missing fields or invalid, overly brief content. Upon de-tection of anomalies, re-extraction is performed for the deficient components. The culmination of this phase yields a structured, foundational auditing dataset ready for subsequent semantic refinement. 

3.3 Phase 2: Iterative Semantic Refinement 

This phase focuses on quality assurance to purify the preliminary dataset through the following verification and self-correction mechanisms. Firstly, the Logical Consistency Validator identifies missing information to trigger targeted knowl-edge recovery. After that, the Hallucination Risk Auditor verifies extraction au-thenticity. Lastly, the Quality Judge conducts semantic evaluation, employing a feedback-driven mechanism to iteratively self-correct flawed records. 

(c-1) Logical Consistency Validation. Taking the initial dataset built in Phase 1 as input, the Logical Consistency Validator employs a rule-based diagnostic engine to identify extraction omissions by cross-referencing source audit reports with the extracted JSON fields. Specifically, it flags missing vul-nerability dimensions (e.g., Mitigation ) when relevant keywords are detected in the source but absent in the dataset. These discrepancies are systematically cat-aloged into a Quality Assurance (QA) Report, which then guides the Knowledge Recovery module to perform a targeted re-extraction of the deficient fragments, ensuring the final corpus faithfully reflects the original expert insights. 

(c-2) Hallucination Risk Auditing. GiAnt also employs a Hallucina-tion Risk Auditor to verify the authenticity of the artifacts extracted. Since LLMs are strictly prompted to perform extractive parsing rather than abstrac-tive summarization, a faithful output must preserve the exact wording of the original reports. Therefore, we utilize a text-inclusion algorithm [21] to compute the lexical overlap rate between the LLM’s output and the source fragments. Any record exhibiting an overlap rate below 0.6 is discarded as a hallucination risk. The threshold was experimentally optimized to balance data yield against fac-tual integrity, as preliminary analyses show 0.6 effectively filters non-extractive hallucinations while preserving high-quality samples. This mechanism ensures that every retained record remains strictly anchored to the ground-truth audit facts, free from LLM-generated noise. 

(c-3) LLM-based Recursive Quality Judge. For deep semantic verification, the extracted records then undergo evaluation by an LLM-based Recursive Quality Judge , which scores the extraction on a 5-point Likert scale [41] against three criteria: Accuracy (absence of fabricated content), Completeness (preser-vation of critical code blocks), and No Summarization (strict adherence to ver-batim extraction). Crucially, the Judge outputs a definitive PASS/FAIL verdict accompanied by a detailed diagnostic critique. Records that fail this evaluation are routed into a dynamic repair loop , as detailed in Algorithm 1. To equip the Judge with full contextual awareness, a Knowledge Rescuer first synthesize local reports Cloc and external data Cext into an augmented context C for each deficient record r. Drawing on task-oriented Chain of Thought , the system com-piles diagnostic critiques ρ into a Rejection History H and feeds it back to the 8 X. Zhang et al. 

Algorithm 1: Recursive Semantic Repair Loop                                                                                         

> Input: Deficient record r, Source report R, Max retries N= 3
> Output: Verified record r∗or Null
> 1Cloc ←Parser (r. id , R ); Cext ←Fetch (r. url );// Knowledge Rescue
> 2C←Cloc ∪Cext ;H←[r. init_reason ]; success ←false;
> 3for i←1to Ndo
> 4dnew ←LLM_Extract (C, r, H );// Re-extraction via CoT thinking
> 5if dnew =∅then
> 6break
> 7(v, ρ )←LLM_Judge (dnew , C );// v∈ { PASS, FAIL };ρ: Judgment
> 8if v=PASS then
> 9r←dnew ;success ←true ;break ;
> 10 H. append (ρ); r←dnew ;// Update history with critique ρ
> 11 if success then
> 12 return r
> 13 else
> 14 Discard( r); return Null ; // Prune unfixable records

extractor. Then the LLM is forced into a state of Cognitive Thinking , explicitly diagnosing prior shortcomings (e.g., code omissions or over-summarization) be-fore generating a revised output dnew . Each revision is immediately subjected to a real-time self-evaluation by the Judge. Successful corrections overwrite the flawed records, while instances that persistently fail after three rounds are per-manently discarded. Ultimately, this refinement produces highly reliable Verified Data , establishing a solid foundation for subsequent phases. 

3.4 Phase 3: Code Mapping & Scoring Oracle 

The goal of this phase is to turn fragmented vulnerability snippets into complete code samples and verify their quality through two primary steps: Source-Level Code Mapping and Code Semantic Alignment Scoring. 

(d) Source-Level Code Mapping. The “ vulnerable_code ” field extracted from audit reports often lacks structural consistency, manifesting as a mixture of volatile GitHub links and incomplete code fragments (e.g., a single vulnerable code statement). So, our GiAnt initiates a Source-Level Mapping utilizing a 

Dual-path Mapping strategy to recover the complete code context. For vul-nerabilities accompanied by explicit GitHub line anchors (e.g., #L100-L110 ), the Precise Mapping branch directly parses the URL to retrieve the exact codes. Conversely, when explicit links are absent, the pipeline orchestrates an LLM Inference mechanism. First, the LLM acts as a semantic resolver to extract and verify target filenames (e.g., resolving UDA.sol from a mention of “fund loss in UDA.sol”) from the vulnerability context (i.e., titles, descriptions, and code fragments). GiAnt then performs a targeted search within identified files; if metadata is absent, it automatically falls back to a global search using the Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 9

code fragments as anchors to locate the complete logic. To guarantee the pu-rity of the extracted code, this mapping process enforces strict directory fil-tering—bypassing noise-inducing folders like test , mock , and node_modules ,thereby ensuring that only the authentic code logic is captured. 

(e) Code Semantic Alignment Scoring. In this stage, an LLM-based Alignment Discriminator acts as a senior smart contract auditor to perform cross-verification and evaluate the semantic consistency among the retrieved 

Code , the documented Impact , and the Description . Specifically, the discrimina-tor quantifies the consistency using a 5-point Likert scale: scores of 1–2 represent irrelevant or erroneously extracted snippets; a score of 3 denotes an acceptable extraction that captures the core logic but lacks essential context (e.g., miss-ing modifiers); while scores of 4–5 are exclusively awarded to extractions that demonstrate near-perfect fidelity to the reported description and impact. By re-taining only those elite instances that achieve a score of ≥ 4, the final oracle solidifies the generation of our High-quality Smart Contract Auditing Dataset .

## 4 Evaluation 

In this section, we aim to answer the following four research questions (RQs): 

• RQ1: Can GiAnt effectively construct a high-quality and context-rich smart contract vulnerability dataset from real-world audit re-ports? We apply our GiAnt to 388 real-world audit reports to construct the dataset, subsequently analyzing its statistical characteristics and com-paring its comprehensiveness against existing baseline datasets. 

• RQ2: How reliable is the vulnerability information extracted by 

GiAnt ? To evaluate the consistency of extracted data with expert judg-ment, we systematically verify the extraction quality by performing a manual evaluation on 400 sampled records across five severity categories. 

• RQ3: How do existing general LLMs perform across the multi-dimensional auditing tasks facilitated by our dataset? We bench-mark four leading LLMs across pivotal auditing sub-tasks using our dataset to establish a performance baseline, thereby mining the challenges and limi-tations these models face when confronted with real-world smart contracts. 

4.1 RQ1: Effectiveness of GiAnt 

We begin by running GiAnt on our previously collected 388 real-world audit reports. The data construction incurred a total cost of approximately $597.2 USD, representing a cumulative consumption of 21.3 million tokens at an average rate of 62.6k tokens per report. Ultimately, our dataset comprises 7,711 multi-level risk findings extracted from the audit reports of 340 distinct projects, with each project’s structured data encapsulated in a dedicated JSONL file. Table 1 outlines the key statistics of our dataset. It comprises a large-scale collection of audited smart contract findings, categorized by risk severity into 10 X. Zhang et al. 

Table 1: Data statistics for our GiAnt corpus and its comparison with existing datasets. JZ: jiuzhou [49]; SB-C: SmartBugs-CURATED [14]; SD: ScrawlD [47]; DAS: DAppScan [52]; SC-B: SC-Bench [42]; FG: FORGE [7].                                                                                                                         

> Category JZ SB-C SD DAS SC-B FG GiAnt
> Data Curation Method
> Automated G#G##G#
> Manual G#G##G###
> Risk Severity
> High Risk ✓✗✗✗✗✓✓(1,048) Medium Risk ✓✗✗✗✗✓✓(2,443) Low Risk ✓✗✗✗✗✓✓(782) Non-Critical ✗✗✗✗✗✓✓(723) Gas Optimization ✗✗✗✗✗✗✓(2,715)
> Key Information Fields
> Vulnerable Code ✓✓✓✓✓✓✓
> Description ✗✗✓✓✓✓✓
> Severity ✓✗✗✗✗✓✓
> Impact ✗✗✗✗✗✗✓
> Mitigation ✓✗✗✗✗✗✓
> PoC ✗✗✗✗✗✗✓
> Supported Tasks
> Vulnerability Detection G#
> Severity Classification ####
> Code Summarization #####
> Mitigation Generation ######
> Gas Optimization ######
> Full Support G#Partial Support #No Support

High (1,048), Medium (2,443), and Low (782) risks , alongside 723 Non-Critical 

issues and 2,715 gas optimization entries. So, compared to existing datasets (e.g., SmartBugs-Wild [14], DAppScan [52] and SC-Bench [42]) that are often curated around specific vulnerability types, our real-world sourced dataset exhibits significantly higher categorical diversity and comprehensiveness, pro-viding a more holistic representation of real-world auditing scenarios .Fig. 2 shows an example of a record in our dataset, illustrating its multi-dimensional structure. Each entry is comprised of several fields that provide comprehensive information about the audited contract code and its vulnerabili-ties. Beyond basic metadata such as a unique identifier (“ id ”) and classification (“ category ”), each record provides a “ vulnerable_code ” field that isolates the specific vulnerability, a “ title ” field that outlines the key vulnerability issues, a “description ” field that offers expert-level explanation of the underlying logic, and a “ original_url ” field that documents the code source of the vulnerability. Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 11 An example record of Medium Risk Finding in our dataset                                         

> {
> "id" :“M -01" ,
> "category" :“medium_risk_findings ",
> "title" :"[M -01] Unchecked approve( ) return causes permanent fund loss in UDA.sol ",
> "description" :"The UniqueDepositAddress.initialize () function at line 38 ignores the return value of ERC20 .approve() ..." ,
> "vulnerable_code ":"function initialize () public initializer {... HTLC (_addressHTLC ). token (). approve (_addressHTLC ,amount ); ... } ",
> "original_ url ":"https://github.com/ eubarah /gardenkey /blob/main/ evm /src /swap/ UDA.sol /#L38 ",
> "poc ":"This PoC demonstrates how the unchecked approve() return value leads to permanent fund loss with non -standard ER ..." ,
> "impact" :"When a user deposits tokens into the UDA and approve() silently fails: The contract marks itself as initialized. ..." ,
> "mitigation" :"The contract already imports SafeERC20 but doesn’t use it for the critical approve() call. Apply one of these
> fixes: function initialize () public initializer { ... // Use SafeERC20 that's already imported \n
> IERC20 (HTLC (_addressHTLC ). token ()). safeApprove (_addressHTLC ,amount ); ... "
> }

Fig. 2: An example record of our dataset in JSON format. Furthermore, each entry is detailed with a “ impact ” field that analyzes potential security consequences, a “ poc ” to demonstrate exploitability, and a “ mitigation ”strategy to provide actionable remediation patches. Consequently, our dataset offers a substantial leap in information density and functional coverage 

over existing benchmarks (e.g., FORGE [7]), enabling a broader spectrum of tasks ranging from severity classification to automated gas optimization. 

Answer to RQ1: Compared to prior works, our dataset built by GiAnt 

presents a substantial leap in information density and task-versatility, estab-lishing a new foundation for automated smart contract auditing studies. 

4.2 RQ2: Reliability of Information Extraction 

In this section, we aim to assess the reliability of our framework in extract-ing smart contract vulnerability information. To answer this RQ, we conduct a manual analysis to estimate the GiAnt ’s extraction quality and assess its consistency with human expert judgments. 

Experiment Setup. Given the inherent imbalance in the distribution of find-ing severities, we employed a stratified random sampling strategy to ensure a representative and statistically significant human evaluation. Specifically, we randomly sampled 400 records across five severity categories based on their initial distribution from our dataset. According to Cochran’s formula for finite popu-lations [40], such a sample size provides a 95% confidence level with a margin of error of approximately 4.75%. The specific sampling breakdown and the result-ing scoring distribution for each risk level are detailed in Table 2. Subsequently, the first two authors of this paper conducted a manual review of the sampled entries, where 350 records were partitioned equally for independent assessment (175 each) and the remaining 50 were jointly evaluated to measure inter-coder agreement. Each entry was scored on a 5-point Likert scale across three dimen-sions (i.e., categorization accuracy, content integrity, and contextual consistency) by cross-referencing the extracted data with the original audit reports. 

Experiment Result. We assessed the objectivity of the manual evaluation us-ing Cohen’s Kappa coefficient on the overlapping 50-item subset, yielding a score 12 X. Zhang et al. 

Table 2: Stratified Sampling Distribution for Manual Validation                                   

> Category Proportion(%) Sample Size # Score # Distri.
> High Risk 13.6 54 4.83 ±0.22
> Medium Risk 31.7 127 4.81 ±0.27
> Low Risk 10.1 40 4.69 ±0.26
> Non-Critical 9.4 38 4.78 ±0.24
> Gas Optimization 35.2 141 4.68 ±0.60
> Total 100 400 4.76 ±0.37

of κ = 0 .88 , indicating “near-perfect” agreement. The final evaluation results are presented in Table 2, which shows that the dataset achieves a high average quality score of 4.76 ± 0.37 (out of 5) across all categories , demonstrating the exceptional precision and consistency of our automated extraction framework in preserving expert insights. The narrow standard deviation further underscores the remarkable stability and robustness of our GiAnt in processing diverse au-dit categories. Moreover, we also provide a granular distribution of these scores across the five risk categories to illustrate the model’s performance consistency across varying levels of vulnerability severity. The distribution histograms show-case a significant concentration of scores at the highest level (score 5), indicating that the vast majority of parsed samples maintain near-perfect align-ment with the original audit reports. 

Answer to RQ2: GiAnt exhibits exceptional reliability, achieving a mean quality score of 4.76 ±0.37 with near-perfect inter-rater agreement ( κ = 0 .88 ). This high score, coupled with a narrow standard deviation, underscores our 

GiAnt ’s robustness in preserving expert insights with high fidelity. 

4.3 RQ3: Benchmarking General LLMs 

Beyond raw code and basic descriptions, our dataset encapsulates a rich spec-trum of auditing artifacts, including severity classifications, impact analyses, mitigation strategies, Proof-of-Concept (PoC) exploits and gas optimization in-sights. Therefore, this multi-dimensional information provides a foundational corpus for investigating the entire continuum of smart contract auditing, span-ning both security robustness and execution efficiency. To demonstrate its utility, in this RQ, we curate specialized subsets from our dataset to evaluate the performance of popular Large Language Models (LLMs) on four pivotal sub-tasks: vulnerability detection, code summarization, mitigation recommendation and automated gas optimization. By benchmarking Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 13 

these representative tasks, we aim to explore the potential of our dataset in fueling automated, multi-tasking auditing frameworks. 

Dataset Setup. To construct the evaluation benchmark, we randomly se-lected 386 samples covering four risk tiers from our vulnerability dataset. Such a sample size is statistically significant, ensuring a margin of error of ±5% at a 95% confidence level. Given the specific focus on gas efficiency, we separately sampled an additional 386 instances for the gas optimization task. 

Model Selection. We conducted our experiments across four LLMs (i.e., GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4o, Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct and DeepSeek-V3). All models were configured with a zero-decoding temperature to facilitate deter-ministic benchmarking. For automated assessment, we implemented an LLM-as-a-Judge framework utilizing GPT-4o, whereby a structured scoring rubric was employed to objectively quantify the accuracy of the generated content. 

Metrics. For vulnerability detection, we formulated the task as a classifica-tion problem and employed metrics including Accuracy (Acc.), Precision (Pre.), Recall (Rec.), and macro-averaged F1-score (F1.). For generative tasks (i.e., Code Summarization, Mitigation Recommendation, and Gas Optimization), we utilized BERTScore [50] (#BERTS) to quantify the semantic alignment between LLM-generated insights and ground truth reports. Besides, we conducted an expert-level assessment (#LLMS) using an LLM-judge, which rated the samples on a 5-point Likert scale based on their relevance and consistency. These results were reported as “mean ± standard deviation” and supplemented by distribution bar charts (#Distri.) to provide a visualization of data consistency. 

Vulnerability Detection Task. As the foundational step in automated smart contract auditing, the vulnerability detection task is formulated as a binary or multi-class classification problem. Specifically, it requires the LLM to identify the presence of exploitable vulnerabilities in the given contract and subsequently categorize them into specific severity tiers (e.g., High, Medium, Low or Non-Critical Risk). In this section, we aim to benchmark the detection capabilities of several LLMs on our dataset, thereby revealing their proficiency and limitations in diagnosing complex, real-world vulnerabilities. Table 3: Vulnerability Detection Performance of Different LLMs                                             

> Model Binary Classification Multi-class Classification Acc. Pre. Rec. F1. Acc. Pre. Rec. F1.
> GPT-3.5-turbo 0.613 0.918 0.625 0.744 0.375 0.330 0.334 0.301
> GPT-4o 0.813 0.918 0.869 0.893 0.363 0.421 0.320 0.284
> Qwen3-Coder-Instruct 0.673 0.907 0.708 0.796 0.370 0.318 0.296 0.280
> DeepSeek-V3 0.745 0.908 0.797 0.849 0.365 0.371 0.328 0.302 14 X. Zhang et al.
> (a) Performance of GPT-3.5-turbo (b) Performance of GPT-4o
> (c) Performance of Qwen3-Coder (d) Performance of DeepSeek-V3

Fig. 3: Confusion matrices of LLMs for multi-class vulnerability prediction. 

Experiment Result. Table 3 lists the vulnerability detection performance of four LLMs in binary and multi-class classification settings. The experimental results show that while all models demonstrate robust security awareness in bi-nary classification — with GPT-4o leading at a 0.893 F1-score — performance significantly falters in multi-class severity categorization, where F1-scores drop to a range of 0.280–0.302. This disparity indicates that while LLMs are effec-tive at identifying the presence of bugs, they struggle to assess their potential impact. Furthermore, to analyze the models’ misclassification trends across dif-ferent severity tiers, we visualize the multi-class classification results through confusion matrix heatmaps (Fig. 3). The confusion matrices further demonstrate that the LLMs exhibit a high misclassification rate in assessing actual vulner-ability risks, with a notable tendency toward “over-warning”. This is evidenced by the frequent misclassification of lower-risk vulnerabilities into higher severity categories. For instance, as shown in the heatmaps of GPT-4o and DeepSeek-V3, a significant portion of Low and Non-Critical instances are erroneously flagged as Medium or High risk. Therefore, simple prompt engineering is insufficient Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 15 

for precise vulnerability severity assessment, highlighting the need for more ad-vanced techniques such as fine-tuning to achieve expert-level risk judgment [22]. 

Code Summarization Task. In the professional auditing workflow, a deep comprehension of a contract’s business logic is a prerequisite for identifying se-curity flaws. Similarly, the effectiveness of an automated auditor hinges on its ability to decode the semantic intent behind raw code. To evaluate this foun-dational capability, we benchmark four LLMs on the code summarization task, where models are required to generate natural language explanations of given code snippets through reasoning. Beyond general descriptions, we further task the models with generating an impact analysis of potential logical risks, thereby evaluating their capacity for semantic reasoning and threat assessment. Table 4: Code Summarization Performance of Different LLMs                                        

> Model Code Understanding Risk Analysis
> #BERTS #LLMS #Distri. #BERTS #LLMS #Distri.
> GPT-3.5-turbo 0.740 1.97 ±0.90 0.734 2.64 ±0.96
> GPT-4o 0.758 2.51 ±1.09 0.737 2.97 ±1.06
> Qwen3-Coder-Instruct 0.757 2.48 ±1.13 0.733 2.86 ±0.98
> DeepSeek-V3 0.747 2.40 ±1.11 0.735 2.89 ±1.05

Experiment Result. As shown in Table 4, the evaluated LLMs exhibit a no-table discrepancy between automated semantic metrics and expert evaluations. While all models achieve relatively high BERTScore values (exceeding 0.733), indicating strong semantic alignment with ground-truth reports, the LLM-judge ratings consistently fall below the 3.0 threshold across both code understand-ing and impact analysis tasks. This disparity suggests that despite generating semantically plausible summaries, current models struggle to achieve the granu-lar, domain-specific comprehension required for professional smart contract au-diting. Consequently, these results highlight an urgent need to integrate more specialized augmentation techniques to bridge the gap between basic semantic mimicking and genuine deep logic understanding in the smart contract domain. 

Mitigation Recommendation Task. In the smart contract security lifecycle, vulnerability mitigation is one of the most critical activities. Mitigation recom-mendation refers to the generation of secure code patches to remediate identified vulnerabilities without introducing new security risks. Recent studies have at-tempted to use LLMs to perform the automated program repair (APR) task for smart contracts. The core idea is to provide the vulnerable code and its contex-16 X. Zhang et al. 

tual description to the model, and then leverage the model’s semantic reasoning and code generation capabilities to output a corrected implementation. Table 5: Mitigation Recommendation Performance of Different LLMs                    

> Model # BERTS # LLMS # Distri.
> GPT-3.5-turbo 0.769 3.64 ±1.05
> GPT-4o 0.778 4.03 ±1.00
> Qwen3-Coder-Instruct 0.780 4.01 ±0.98
> DeepSeek-V3 0.782 4.09 ±1.02

Experiment Result. Table 5 presents the performance of the evaluated LLMs in generating remediation strategies for identified vulnerabilities. We can see that all evaluated LLMs demonstrate a strong capacity for mitigation recommenda-tion, achieving high semantic alignment with human experts (#BERTS ≥ 0.769, #LLMS ≥ 3.64). These results suggest that when provided with detailed vul-nerability descriptions, LLMs can effectively leverage their inherent reasoning to formulate technically plausible mitigation patches. However, the significant standard deviation—approximating 1.0—across all ratings reveals a lack of out-put stability, underscoring the necessity of integrating advanced techniques to enhance the reliability and precision of automated auditing frameworks. 

Automated Gas Optimization Task. Gas optimization is a critical pillar of smart contract auditing, as inefficient code execution directly translates to pro-hibitive transaction costs and potential Denial-of-Service (DoS) vulnerabilities in resource-constrained blockchain environments. Unlike traditional software opti-mization, it requires a balance between logical correctness and the minimization of EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) opcodes. Recently, the advent of LLMs has catalyzed a shift towards automated gas optimization, where models are tasked with performing end-to-end code refactoring. By taking raw Solidity code as in-put and leveraging their profound understanding of code semantics, LLMs aim to generate functionally equivalent yet gas-efficient variants. 

Experiment Result. Table 6 summarizes the gas optimization performance of four evaluated LLMs. The results demonstrate that all evaluated models can generate functionally equivalent, gas-efficient variants with high semantic align-ment to expert solutions, as evidenced by BERTScore values exceeding 0.715 and LLM-judge ratings nearing the median (i.e., approximating 3.0). These find-ings suggest that LLMs possess a foundational capacity for code refactoring and resource optimization through profound semantic understanding. However, the substantial standard deviation of approximately 1.2 indicates significant insta-bility in output quality, highlighting a performance volatility that underscores Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 17 

Table 6: Gas Optimization Performance of Different LLMs                    

> Model # BERTS # LLMS # Distri.
> GPT-3.5-turbo 0.715 2.80 ±1.18
> GPT-4o 0.739 3.19 ±1.21
> Qwen3-Coder-Instruct 0.737 3.27 ±1.18
> DeepSeek-V3 0.736 3.38 ±1.24

the critical need for integrating more sophisticated techniques to enhance LLM precision and reliability in automated gas optimization. 

Answer to RQ3: While LLMs establish a foundational baseline across all tasks, zero-shot prompting is insufficient for professional auditing, necessitat-ing the integration of advanced techniques to enhance precision and reliability. 

## 5 Threats to Validity 

Internal Validity. The reliance on LLM-based extraction and evaluation may introduce inherent inaccuracies and biases, potentially overlooking domain-specific hallucinations in complex smart contract logic. However, this risk is significantly mitigated by two factors: First, our manual evaluation in Section 4.2 shows that the extracted artifacts maintain high precision and consistency with the orig-inal report. Second, our dataset will be publicly hosted on GitHub, enabling community-driven verification and continuous refinement via the issue tracking system, which ensures the long-term data reliability for practical applications. 

External Validity. The first threat concerns selection bias, as our corpus is ex-clusively curated from Code4rena. However, this approach actually strengthens data authenticity since the reports consist of vulnerabilities discovered in real-world projects and verified by multiple independent security experts, thereby bolstering ecological validity rather than diminishing it. The second threat in-volves generalizability constraints, as our pipeline leverages Code4rena’s specific layout, potentially limiting its direct applicability to other platforms. Neverthe-less, the core underlying artifacts (e.g., vulnerability descriptions and impacts) are universal. Extending our framework to unstructured reports only requires specific pre-processing modules without altering our fundamental methodology. The third threat relates to model dependency from our selection of GPT-4o. This is mitigated by our extraction-centric objective and modular architecture: GPT-4o is tasked with verbatim information extraction within short contexts—a capability well within its current stable limits—rather than complex reasoning. This design ensures that our methodology remains robust across different mod-els, allowing for straightforward substitution as more advanced LLMs emerge. 18 X. Zhang et al. 

## 6 Related Work 

Constructing high-quality audit datasets is pivotal for smart contract security. 

Manual Curation. Early benchmarks primarily rely on rigorous manual cu-ration to ensure data quality. For instance, SmartBugs-CURATED [14] pro-vides high-quality, manual-tagged labels for 69 contracts, while DAppSCAN [52] involves extensive human labor (44 person-months) to process audit reports. While these datasets offer expert-level insights, their prohibitive manual over-head severely limits their scalability and prevents them from capturing the rapidly evolving vulnerability landscape in the smart contract ecosystem. 

Automated Construction. To improve scalability, researchers have proposed automated labeling using static analysis tools. ScrawlD [47], for example, em-ploys a majority-voting mechanism among multiple tools. However, such datasets suffer from a “performance ceiling”: the quality of the dataset is inherently capped by the underlying tools’ limitations. Furthermore, they provide only binary or coarse-grained labels (e.g., jiuzhou [49] and SC-Bench [42]), lacking the multi-dimensional audit insights (e.g., detailed analyses and mitigation strategies) re-quired for complex reasoning tasks. Recently, the advent of LLMs has inspired automated dataset construction. For instance, FORGE [7] employs an LLM-driven pipeline to automatically extract and classify over 27k vulnerabilities into the CWE hierarchy, validating the potential of LLMs for information extraction. 

Our Solution. In this study, we present GiAnt to automatically extract high-quality vulnerability artifacts from real-world audit reports, greatly reducing the manual effort required for dataset curation. By leveraging the elite crowdsourced intelligence of Code4rena, we further constructed an unprecedented, comprehen-sive multi-task dataset (i.e., the GiAnt Corpus ) tailored for automated smart contract auditing research, which comprises 7,711 vulnerability findings across five severity levels. Unlike prior datasets confined to basic vulnerability detec-tion, our corpus enables comprehensive evaluation of LLMs across a spectrum of advanced tasks, ranging from vulnerability detection to mitigation generation. 

## 7 Conclusion 

In this paper, we propose GiAnt , an automated framework for curating high-quality smart contract audit datasets from real-world reports. By leveraging a divide-and-conquer strategy coupled with Chain-of-Thought reasoning, GiAnt 

systematically extracts complex vulnerabilities while employing an LLM-as-a-Judge mechanism to mitigate hallucinations and ensure data quality. As a re-sult, GiAnt has produced a comprehensive dataset (i.e., the GiAnt Corpus )comprising 7,711 verified findings across five severities. We further utilized this corpus to establish a performance baseline for state-of-the-art LLMs across crit-ical auditing dimensions, including detection, summarization, remediation, and gas optimization. By bridging the gap between audit reports and actionable re-search artifacts, GiAnt provides a foundational corpus that enables multi-task automated smart contract auditing studies for both academia and industry. Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 19 

## Acknowledgment 

This research is supported by the National Science Foundation of China (No. 62572322). This research is partially sponsored by the CCF-Huawei Populus Grove Fund. We also thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful com-ments and suggestions. 

## References 

1. Pymupdf. https://github.com/pymupdf/PyMuPDF 2. Our replication package. https://zenodo.org/records/19325553 (2026) 3. Achiam, J., Adler, S., Agarwal, S., Ahmad, L., Akkaya, I., Aleman, F.L., Almeida, D., Altenschmidt, J., Altman, S., Anadkat, S., et al.: Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv:2303.08774 (2023) 4. Bai, J., Bai, S., Chu, Y., Cui, Z., Dang, K., Deng, X., Fan, Y., Ge, W., Han, Y., Huang, F., et al.: Qwen technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.16609 (2023) 5. Chen, J., Hu, J., Xia, X., Lo, D., Grundy, J., Gao, Z., Chen, T.: Angels or demons: investigating and detecting decentralized financial traps on ethereum smart con-tracts. Automated Software Engineering 31 (2), 63 (2024) 6. Chen, J., Shao, Z., Yang, S., Shen, Y., Wang, Y., Chen, T., Shan, Z., Zheng, Z.: Numscout: Unveiling numerical defects in smart contracts using llm-pruning symbolic execution. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (2025) 7. Chen, J., Shen, Y., Zhang, J., Li, Z., Grundy, J., Shao, Z., Wang, Y., Wang, J., Chen, T., Zheng, Z.: Forge: An llm-driven framework for large-scale smart contract vulnerability dataset construction (2025), https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.18795 8. Code4rena: https://code4rena.com/ 9. Dai, Z., Chen, B., Zhao, Z., Tang, X., Wu, S., Yao, C., Gao, Z., Chen, J.: Less is more: Adaptive program repair with bug localization and preference learning. In: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. vol. 39, pp. 128–136 (2025) 10. Dai, Z., Yao, C., Han, W., Yuanying, Y., Gao, Z., Chen, J.: Mpcoder: Multi-user personalized code generator with explicit and implicit style representation learning. In: Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). pp. 3765–3780 (2024) 11. Dai, Z., Zhao, Z., Wang, H., Tang, X., Wu, S., Yao, C., Gao, Z., Chen, J.: Learner-tailored program repair: A solution generator with iterative edit-driven retrieval enhancement. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.08545 (2026) 12. DeFiLlama: https://defillama.com/ (2026) 13. Ding, Y., Fu, Y., Ibrahim, O., Sitawarin, C., Chen, X., Alomair, B., Wagner, D., Ray, B., Chen, Y.: Vulnerability detection with code language models: How far are we? arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18624 (2024) 14. Durieux, T., Ferreira, J.F., Abreu, R., Cruz, P.: Empirical review of auto-mated analysis tools on 47,587 ethereum smart contracts. In: Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering. ICSE ’20. https://doi.org/10.1145/3377811.3380364 15. Feist, J., Grieco, G., Groce, A.: Slither: a static analysis framework for smart contracts. In: 2019 IEEE/ACM 2nd international workshop on emerging trends in software engineering for blockchain (WETSEB). pp. 8–15. IEEE (2019) 20 X. Zhang et al. 16. Gao, Z.: When deep learning meets smart contracts. In: Proceedings of the 35th IEEE/ACM international conference on automated software engineering. pp. 1400– 1402 (2020) 17. Gao, Z., Jayasundara, V., Jiang, L., Xia, X., Lo, D., Grundy, J.: Smartembed: A tool for clone and bug detection in smart contracts through structural code embedding. In: 2019 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME). pp. 394–397. IEEE (2019) 18. Gao, Z., Jiang, L., Xia, X., Lo, D., Grundy, J.: Checking smart contracts with structural code embedding. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 47 (12), 2874–2891 (2020) 19. Hedera Hashgraph, LLC: What is a smart contract audit? https://hedera.com/learning/smart-contract-audit/ 20. Hu, X., Gao, Z., Xia, X., Lo, D., Yang, X.: Automating user notice generation for smart contract functions. In: 2021 36th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). pp. 5–17. IEEE (2021) 21. Ji, Z., Lee, N., Frieske, R., Yu, T., Su, D., Xu, Y., Ishii, E., Bang, Y.J., Madotto, A., Fung, P.: Survey of hallucination in natural language generation. ACM Computing Surveys 55 (12) (2023). https://doi.org/10.1145/3571730 22. Li, X., Li, Z., Li, W., Zhang, Y., Wang, X.: No more hidden pitfalls? exposing smart contract bad practices with llm-powered hybrid analysis. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. (2026). https://doi.org/10.1145/3795692, just Accepted 23. Lin, H., Gao, Z., Chen, J., Chen, X., Yang, X., Bao, L.: Actaint: Agent-based taint analysis for access control vulnerabilities in smart contracts. In: 2025 40th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). pp. 2555–2567. IEEE (2025) 24. Liu, A., Feng, B., Xue, B., Wang, B., Wu, B., Lu, C., Zhao, C., Deng, C., Zhang, C., Ruan, C., et al.: Deepseek-v3 technical report. arXiv:2412.19437 (2024) 25. Liu, P., Liu, J., Fu, L., Lu, K., Xia, Y., Zhang, X., Chen, W., Weng, H., Ji, S., Wang, W.: Exploring {ChatGPT’s } capabilities on vulnerability management. In: 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24). pp. 811–828 (2024) 26. Liu, X., Tan, Y., Xiao, Z., Zhuge, J., Zhou, R.: Not the end of story: An eval-uation of chatgpt-driven vulnerability description mappings. In: Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023. pp. 3724–3731 (2023) 27. Lu, S., Guo, D., Ren, S., Huang, J., Svyatkovskiy, A., Blanco, A., Clement, C., Drain, D., Jiang, D., Tang, D., et al.: Codexglue: A machine learning benchmark dataset for code understanding and generation. arXiv:2102.04664 (2021) 28. Luu, L., Chu, D.H., Olickel, H., Saxena, P., Hobor, A.: Making smart contracts smarter. In: Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security. pp. 254–269 (2016) 29. Mai, Y., Gao, Z., Hu, X., Bao, L., Liu, Y., Sun, J.: Are human rules necessary? generating reusable apis with cot reasoning and in-context learning. Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering 1(FSE), 2355–2377 (2024) 30. Mai, Y., Gao, Z., Wang, H., Bi, T., Hu, X., Xia, X., Sun, J.: Towards better answers: Automated stack overflow post updating. In: 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). pp. 591–603. IEEE (2025) 31. OWASP Foundation: OWASP smart contract top 10 - 2026. https://owasp.org/www-project-smart-contract-top-10/ 32. Ruan, Y., Gao, Z., Chen, J., Bao, L., Yang, X.: Improving gas efficiency in smart contracts: Data-driven insights and llm-assisted remediation. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (2026) Empowering Automated Smart Contract Auditing via the GiAnt Corpus 21 33. Sendner, C., Petzi, L., Stang, J., Dmitrienko, A.: Large-scale study of vulnerability scanners for ethereum smart contracts. In: 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). pp. 2273–2290. IEEE (2024) 34. SolidityScan: Web3HackHub: 2025 Web3 security incidents statistics. https://solidityscan.com/web3hackhub?year=2025, accessed: 2026-03-02 35. SolidityScan: Web3HackHub 2024 annual security report: Analyzing 149 incidents and $1.42b losses. Tech. rep., SolidityScan (2024), https://solidityscan.com/ 36. Sun, Y., Wu, D., Xue, Y., Liu, H., Ma, W., Zhang, L., Liu, Y., Li, Y.: Llm4vuln: A unified evaluation framework for decoupling and enhancing llms’ vulnerability reasoning. arXiv:2401.16185 (2024) 37. Sun, Y., Wu, D., Xue, Y., Liu, H., Wang, H., Xu, Z., Xie, X., Liu, Y.: Gptscan: Detecting logic vulnerabilities in smart contracts by combining gpt with program analysis. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th international conference on soft-ware engineering. pp. 1–13 (2024) 38. Tsankov, P., Dan, A., Drachsler-Cohen, D., Gervais, A., Buenzli, F., Vechev, M.: Securify: Practical security analysis of smart contracts. In: Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security (2018) 39. Wang, H., Gao, Z., Hu, X., Lo, D., Grundy, J., Wang, X.: Just-in-time todo-missed commits detection. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 50 (11), 2732–2752 (2024) 40. Wohlin, C., Runeson, P., Höst, M., Ohlsson, M.C., Regnell, B., Wesslén, A., et al.: Experimentation in software engineering, vol. 236. Springer (2012) 41. Xia, B., Bi, T., Xing, Z., Lu, Q., Zhu, L.: An empirical study on software bill of materials: Where we stand and the road ahead (2023), https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.05362 42. Xia, S., He, M., Song, L., Zhang, Y.: Sc-bench: A large-scale dataset for smart contract auditing. In: 2025 IEEE/ACM International Workshop on Large Language Models for Code (LLM4Code). pp. 57–64 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1109/LLM4Code66737.2025.00012 43. Xiang, J., Gao, Z., Bao, L., Hu, X., Chen, J., Xia, X.: Automating comment genera-tion for smart contract from bytecode. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 34 (3), 1–31 (2025) 44. Xue, Z., Gao, Z., Wang, S., Hu, X., Xia, X., Li, S.: Selfpico: Self-guided partial code execution with llms. In: Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis. pp. 1389–1401 (2024) 45. Xue, Z., Zhang, X., Gao, Z., Hu, X., Gao, S., Xia, X., Li, S.: Clean code, better models: Enhancing llm performance with smell-cleaned dataset. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (2025) 46. Yan, D., Gao, Z., Liu, Z.: A closer look at different difficulty levels code gener-ation abilities of chatgpt. In: 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). pp. 1887–1898. IEEE (2023) 47. Yashavant, C.S., Kumar, S., Karkare, A.: Scrawld: A dataset of real world ethereum smart contracts labelled with vulnerabilities. arXiv:2202.11409 (2022) 48. Yu, J., Gao, Z., Bao, L., Liu, Z.: Enhancing domain-specific code completion via collaborative inference with large and small language models. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (2025) 49. Zhang, P., Xiao, F., Luo, X.: A framework and dataset for bugs in ethereum smart contracts. In: 2020 IEEE international conference on software maintenance and evolution (ICSME). pp. 139–150. IEEE (2020) 50. Zhang, T., Kishore, V., Wu, F., Weinberger, K.Q., Artzi, Y.: Bertscore: Evaluating text generation with bert. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.09675 (2019) 22 X. Zhang et al. 51. Zhang, Z., Zhang, B., Xu, W., Lin, Z.: Demystifying exploitable bugs in smart contracts. In: 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engi-neering (ICSE). pp. 615–627. IEEE (2023) 52. Zheng, Z., Su, J., Chen, J., Lo, D., Zhong, Z., Ye, M.: Dappscan: Building large-scale datasets for smart contract weaknesses in dapp projects. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 50 (6) (2024). https://doi.org/10.1109/tse.2024.3383422 53. Zheng, Z., Xie, S., Dai, H.N., Chen, W., Chen, X., Weng, J., Imran, M.: An overview on smart contracts: Challenges, advances and platforms. Future Gen-eration Computer Systems 105 , 475–491 (2020)